Title: City of Fairfield | Study Session & City Council 6.9.25
Date: 2025-06-10
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7OPfNhx4bOk

call the meeting to order and hopefully
Mr. Morsy will be here soon too. Um,
last week I just want to mention last
week we found out that we need an
additional DNR permit for Walton Lake.
Um, so can you, Doug, give us an update
on that? Where we're at with that? Yeah.
Do you do you have any information? So,
do you want to expand on that? Of
course, Miss Melanie, but because I want
to get the language wrong.
Um, with everything that I was working
on last week, um, it was submitted
today. Um so it is a drawdown permit.
Typically DNR um includes the draw down
approval.
Um they they did include the draw down
approval in their um in their dam
permit, but um upon
um
consultation with their legal council at
DNR, the actual Iowa code specifies that
they should be issuing two permits even
though for years and years and years
they have only issued one permit. um
their legal council has advised that
they um issue two permits and uh so I
submitted that request this afternoon.
Do we have any idea on time frame? Um
considering they have in their minds
already approved it. I don't know.
I mean you you wouldn't think anything
would hold it up I guess. Right. And
correct. Would they would that do you I
mean I guess I'm kind of asking again.
Do you think that's a week's time? Do
you have any idea? Um I don't have any
idea. Um so the questions that they
asked were the um
uh the draw down rate uh what methods
will be taken to ensure that there's no
down excuse me um downstream flooding.
Um so earliest possible start date of
the draw down. Um,
let me see what else was included on
this
and then earliest possible refill, the
method of draw down, and the method of
um, refilling the lake. So, those are
all included. Um, to answer those, the
earliest possible start date would be
um, what I put on the request was June
16th.
Um that would allow for
um mailing notifications to all
downstream
um
downstream adjacent land owners.
Um it's not required, but that is one
thing that they encouraged in the
application.
Um
based off of the information that we
have that the total draw would be 11 1/2
ft
um leaving 12 and 1/2 ft of water near
the dam
and um
that
um the total the outlet pipe has a total
capacity of 30 cubic feet per second. Um
we when we drew it down in 2018, we um
adjusted the valve so that it flu flowed
at about half full or about half
capacity um and
um which would take about 2 weeks to
draw down um that 11 1/2 ft.
So that's what we submitted. That's what
we requested DNR. And so that would be
enough for then for Trish to proceed as
as the original project, I guess. And so
the conversation that I had with DNR dam
safety was to submit quote the worst
case scenario as far as drawing things
down. And if we had any if we made any
changes that um that could be done, but
if we started off with the worst case
scenario that they can start with that.
So you said would take two weeks. Um
that is what's estimated based off of a
um 8 to 10 cubic foot per second.
Is that called in Cro Creek? Cro Creek.
Um it's a tributary to Cro Creek. So it
goes um under the railroad and then goes
through um I think it's Shakers
own a majority of it as well as um
Brenton Clark and then it goes in um
right on the very east actually the
covert then where it crosses under 34 is
the that covert is the dividing line
between the city limits and the county
limits on the east side of town.
And one more question, how much will
that lower the lake level at the bridge
or at the cart at the cart bridge? Um,
so it would take it down to based off of
the um elevations that they had on that
French RER had on their survey that
would take it to the bottom the top.
Yeah. To ground I mean I don't know what
you call the ground. Bottom of the lake.
Bottom of the lake. Yeah. Yeah. Um which
is an elevation of 717.
And I should say so the um
the remaining elevation or the remaining
water of 12 1/2 ft is based off of um
some 1971
plans. Um it doesn't account for
sediment. Um
that was kind of some discussions we've
had over the last couple weeks is that
you know we don't really have a contour
map of the bottom of the lake. So, we
don't know how much water is exact
exactly going to be left everywhere. Um,
the only elevation that we do know for
sure is right at the cartridge.
How long is the permit good for?
Um,
as far as the draw down permit, um, I
would assume it was based off of the
dates that I requested,
but again, cons considering that they've
always just issued a construction
permit, that's good for the time that
construction I guess my real question is
if it the early start date is June 16,
what's the latest start date? Um, I said
August 4th. um the 4th of August because
uh that and I'm assuming that about 75
days between draw down allowing the lake
area to dry and then 30 days for
construction
um would put the latest possible refill
date of of October 15th
um very much past that then we start to
get into fall rains. Yeah. So you said
30 days construction basically. So the
contract has 30 days um construction
period.
Um we've made an assumption of 30 days
for it to dry out to the point that they
can work and um then based off the
calculations it's two weeks to draw
down.
So 74 days. I'm using 75 days. I ask
assume 75 days in the permit
application.
Now, that assumes that it rains on
October 15th.
Did you say that leaves 12 ft of water
at the dam? That's based off of the 1971
plans, but yes. Okay.
And that also doesn't account for
sediment, which would be any other deep
deep water spots other than there? We
don't know. Okay. Yeah. Um, we do know
Doug and I were out there Friday. Um, so
already at this point the um
the body of water the on the east the
east finger over by the gun club um it's
actually already lower than the culvert
elevation. So that if the water if the
lake started dropping today, the water
level on the gun club side wouldn't
change as a result of what happens on
the other side on the south side of
Walton Road because that body of water
is already lower than what the culprit
is. So that'll maintain. Mhm.
It's only a couple feet deep because we
found because there's a TV in there and
it's a you know it's a 30 or 42 inch TV
and the top part's sticking out but I
mean it's
Is that Is that the pond on six? Pardon
me. Is that the pond on six? Is it we're
talking about No, this is the one across
she was talking about. It's very shallow
over on your closer to your propert. Oh,
across the road. Yeah, it's on the north
side. It's on the north side of Walton.
I got you.
And on the north side of the road as you
drive into Walton on the left side,
that's north. That will all stay the
same. Correct. Um, no, I don't. And I
don't know the elevation of that covert.
Um, but assuming that it's at the bottom
of the lake, it's going to draw down as
we draw down the lake. It will draw down
to you. Okay. I wasn't sure about that
slide. Gotcha.
And this is and you know that's an
example of where um DNR
DNR is a very large department and DNR
wildlife or DNR fishery might have a
different opinion than DNR dam safety.
you know, a DNR fisheries may encourage
um um pooling an area in order to allow
the fish to remain. Uh but DNR dam
safety then looks at it and goes, "Well,
you can't have water on one side of the
road and dry on the other side of the
road." That puts the Walton Road then in
um a hazardous condition condition,
especially for a period of 75 days,
depending on how high you leave that
water. So, um,
again, at this point, we're not
intending on storing anything beyond
what's going to remain due to the
elevations of the culverts.
Uh, what questions, council, do you have
for me? Uh, John? Yeah, Melanie. the two
fingers on the north side of the road.
Uh
the water capacity in each of those
pools, uh if we wanted to pump some of
that across the road to water greens,
would that be an environmental issue?
So, I don't know if it's an env
environmental issue as much as it would
be um not good for their system. Um, I
mean just looking at different issues
that we've had with uh the irrigation
system at the other golf course using
the reclaimed water, you know, anytime
there's a little bit of sediment or
anything like that causes problems with
them. Um, our preferred solution What do
you mean? It would mess up their
sprinklers. Yes. Plug them. I mean, if
anyone's ever gotten a little tiny
pebble from a a fish tank in their um
garbage disposal, uh I mean, you know,
just think how much damage that does,
let alone what it would do to sprinkler
heads. So, um yeah, I our preferred um
solution to the irrigation would be to
connect to the potable water. There's a
hydrant about 40 feet from the pump
house and whether it's a temporary
connection or an underground partial
underground connection um that we can
make a connection to the potable water
source.
The only other solution is rain and
rain. Yes. Yeah. But again, that's a I
mean, there's so many um two sides of
the coin here because if it rains, then
it gets then it's harder for the work to
continue as planned. Um so
uh what other questions council
regarding that topic? None. Okay, let's
go on to the next one. Uh, you know, we
were last week when Doug and I were
talking, we were I mean, I was in hopes
that DNR would be here or they would at
least be on the phone. Um, they did send
an email. So, I guess Doug, you want to
run down your conversations with them
and and what they sent us. Um
I I guess the the one thing that had
come up is
that they would like to do a lake study
and um you know we weren't sure if they
were requiring it
uh what their time frame was. There was
a lot of questions unanswered. I guess
up the the upshot is this is a much
longer
time frame of planning and actually
doing it potentially multiple years. So
this is not DNR is not requiring this.
Um
and so it's not like you have to do it
now. Um takes planning. So um so that
was kind of at the top of kind of top of
discussion list of what they were
talking and what we needed to
understand. So I guess Doug again if you
would kind of go through your
discussions with them and and what they
sent you. Yeah. So they and I actually
put a copy of this on the back. I don't
know if they're all going to be gone or
not, but I sent this to everyone that
this was just kind of a a brief summary.
And I've had multiple meetings and
Melanie and I have had multiple meetings
with the DNR and the different schools
of thought, but the one thing that they
have said was is they've never been on
Walton Lake. And so we are actually they
would like to get a couple of boats on
there. They want to be able to evaluate.
They want to do a fish survey and they
also would like uh to map the bottom.
That's something that they've never been
able to do because there are no boat
ramps. And we can we found some places
that we can accommodate that. But, you
know, we walked around the entire lake
and they we're discussing a larger plan
that now that that
they're looking that they've noticed
that there is some bank armorament that
needs to be done that, you know, the
city does have uh owns 10 ft away from
the bank so that we have access all the
way around that and that they noticed
that there's quite a bit of erosion.
and Walton Lake not only is it
surrounded by houses but it's also
surrounded by farm ground. And so they
took notice that you know the tillage
when it rains that it brings those
sediments in. So they actually have
special equipment on these boats that
not only can they do sonar but they can
actually test how deep the sediments are
at the bottom of that lake. their
calculations are roughly about 30 uh 30%
silted in and that could pose uh some
issues over time. And they actually have
funding for, you know, to address, you
know, dredging. They have funding to
address access. They have funding for
bank armorament. and they would like to
come up with a plan and work with us
over time, which I think is a really
good thing that uh you know, one of the
DNR um agents that that I was talking to
uh is a history buff and understands the
history of Walton Lake and how the you
know, it started out as a fishing resort
and then it developed into what it is
today and you know since they've never
really had any access to it that they
they're they're not forcing their way in
but they would definitely like to have a
relationship and help us. So again this
was kind of the talking points that you
know of dewatering and what happens
they're they're not real concerned. They
do realize that that they're as we do
construction and do maintenance, there's
going to be a fish kill and that we
we're going to lose those fish and that
they're happy to come in. But they also
know that there's potentially invasive
species in there that they would like to
address and maybe get rid of and start
over. Did they tell us any idea what the
invasive species might be? They did and
I don't basically I think that it's
pretty much grass carp but they had a
different name for some other fish that
I did not recognize. I once again I am
not an attorney. I'm not an engineer and
I'm not a fish biologist and I don't
want to um
make anything up but they they had given
a fish name that I was not familiar
with. But um anyway uh they did they did
the same thing at Lake Darling and Lake
Geode and a couple others uh around the
state of Iowa that they went through
this very same thing. Uh they did
discuss uh in this document some
challenges and
you know it discusses the sedimentation
and the nutrient values and the algae
blooms and you know
they don't discuss the the the the
fish species in here but then they talk
about the they go over the potential
solutions and there's actually several
several p or not pages several
paragraphs of the things that we need to
do over a period of years to help this
lake be rejuvenated into the way that it
was. We built this lake over a 100 years
ago and they would like to make it last
another 100 years. So it it looks pretty
good for the age of a man-made lake. The
second thing is you know they talk about
the stakeholders then they talk about
public involvement and then the
timelines. The timeline that they give
is a lake restoration project may take
as many as 15 to 20 years and it's not
out of the realm of uh possibilities.
The lake will not be fully restored in a
short time frame. and
and they go through that and then they
talk about the the planning and
uh future monitoring of the watersheds
of water quality fisheries and shoreline
evaluations. So that's what this
document is. And then they they are
drafting us a a plan of next steps and
you know you we'll we'll work with them
and see where we go from there. So the
upshot is that on this count or this
this uh study session, the bullet points
we had under the DNR report really are
loot at this point cuz we're not it's
not like it's going to happen over the
summer, right? Cuz we didn't know that
for sure. We we thought maybe that that
was something wanted to do right away
and would this delay the project? What
would we get out of it? But again, it's
a much longer time frame that they're
talking about. So that was the question
I had on listening to your report is
what's how is it relevant to what we're
deciding what we've decided to do now
and is it uh it is not relevant the DNR
is like you guys do what you need to do.
They're very interested at what the lake
what's on the bottom of that lake and
you know as we draw it down they're
going to they're going to come out and
they're going to look and see but they
also I mean if we draw drawing down the
lake they will have an opportunity to
determine whether to what extent there
is an invasive or invasive species in
the lake. Is that right? That's correct.
So there's they could do it one way or
the other. We did nothing and then you
know they still we would figure out how
to get their boats. These boats are not
small and so we're we're not supposed to
have boats and motorized boats on that
water and these are large 21 ft V-bottom
boats that have all sorts of specialized
equipment that will come out and
evaluate it. So if it's the water's not
there, they can actually see what we
have. And then of course it's not all
going to go away. It's just drawing down
to one side. So hopefully those fish
species will will migrate. But we will
have an opportunity with the draw down
to have what they have an opportunity to
determine the extent of sediment, the
depth of sediment, how soft it is, that
sort of thing. Yeah. Except for the
areas where that the water won't be
completely gone, right? And then they
can evaluate that at a later date or we
might be able to have them get them
access there. I don't know that yet.
Okay.
Any questions council on that regarding
DNR?
Okay, let's go to number three. Review
from French Renker of engineering work
and estimates bids on Walton Lake.
Uh
let's tag teamness. Yeah. So we thought
it would be important in this study
session to again do a review of all the
places we've been so that it just we had
another review and it was more clear for
public and any questions that council
may have had or forgotten or whatever.
So I'll let you guys take it. So just do
you want review on the project or the
report that I had? I guess I wasn't for
sure what you wanted. So, sorry. I think
the idea was that we go back and say,
what did what was discussed with
committee? Okay. How we got to three
proposals looking at the three
proposals, you know, the three different
kinds and you know, how we arrived at a
decision. Um.
Okay. All right. Um so I will I'll start
with um the the different options then
um
so the
um discussion on this really starts on I
don't know what page of the PDF it is
but it's on page nine of the summary
report and so upon
um so this the first person I on the
city's side to be made aware of this
situation was myself. um the Walton Club
uh board members uh brought it to my
attention and then I um forwarded it on
to Doug Rener and Tom Tuhill who's
Molton rep and through different um
discussion during um city admin report
and um discussion with with Doug, we
decided that uh to have
Frencher look at some different
alternatives
um to
look at the different cost estimates or
do a preliminary cost estimate um real
you know
um very high level review of things. Um,
and so I guess and Marcus can the two al
alternatives that Marcus had brought to
us would be the the covert option. Um,
and really that comes from what the um
east finger has or the east basin has um
where it crosses between uh the two
sides of the golf course because that's
kind of where that concept came up is
you know it's it have help happens
elsewhere in the lake. So let's see um
about that option. Um the bridge
reconstruction, you know, replacing it
as is. Um French RER has experience in a
lot of different trail bridges. Um and
so that was the two alternatives that
were kind of initially discussed. Uh the
widening of Walton Road uh was actually
brought to me by the water department of
hey why let's just take him out to
Walton Road. And I said, well, let's
look into the alternative because we're
not going to know if we don't look into
it. So, um, and so those were the
alternatives. Um, I think we talked back
and forth a couple times like racking
our brain, are there any other
alternatives? Um, as far as the culvert
system. Um,
during some of that analysis, box
coververts were looked at. Um, different
combinations
um, using uh, railroad cars instead of
um, culverts. All of those were looked
at and ultimately the option that was
provided was the cheapest of all of
those different options. So I mean even
though only one was presented to the
council there's about four or five sub
options in there that
I think I'm you know there are citizens
who actually watched our watch our
meetings and uh some go back and look at
our history of meetings and in May of
last year it turns out that Frencher
presented three options May 13th are you
do that You're suggesting there was just
one option presented to the council.
There actually three. I think Marcus
presented them, right? Right. Okay.
Okay. Yeah. And that included the
pre-engineered bridge. Is that correct?
Okay. Yeah. Okay. No, but what I was
saying is on the culbert on the culbert
option, um what was presented was a
number like a number of smaller round
culverts. I just want to go back to the
point like it was a year ago that we
were presented with several options.
Yes. Yeah. Yeah. But on but on the
culvert option more than just the number
of culverts I mean box culverts were
looked at. Um railroad cars multiple
different versions of culverts were
looked at. So um but the three options
were looked at um and so then um you
know uh ways property committee um made
had some discussions and I guess I don't
know how much detail you want to go into
as far as the pros and cons on that um
but that decision was made to move
forward with the covert option
um and then ways and means agreed to the
funding.
Um, one of the things then that
um happened when the ways and means
agreed to the funding during that
council meeting was um then Terry Kes
brought up had received emails from
citizens regarding the um
other versions of bridges and um so the
these are mentioned on page 10. Um these
were a couple different bridges were
looked at before
uh we went into final design and before
French Rener's agreement was uh agreed
upon I guess and really it boils down to
uh the abutments the sides of the
um opening in the dam. They're the um
one of the largest concerns on the
bridge when it comes to the inspections.
So something has to be done with them
whether we move forward with a bridge
alternative or a culvert al alternative
or a do nothing alternative.
So the um couple alternatives of bridges
of slide in bridges or carry in bridges
whatever you want to um are not feasible
without doing something to the
abutments. And so, um, in my opinion
that you can either, um, to address
those, either a copper dam or draining
the lake still has to happen.
And that was the discussion that was had
is that those options are not feasible
because the copper dams add additional
funds. They're a safety hazard. Um, and
so they, even though the estimates we
had already made the bridges more
expensive, and then you add copper dams,
they continue to add to the price. Can
you explain to everybody what a copper
dam is? Copper dam would be um a
barricade of some sort that holds the
water back so that you can work on the
abutments without lowering the lake.
Um so again those options were not
initially presented but they were looked
at in about the one-month period between
when um ways and means made the
recommendation and when the final design
contract was agreed to. So then I will
let Marcus talk about then the final
design because the final design did
modify the proposal slightly due to
final calculations on the drainage area.
Yeah. So after we received go ahead on
the final design, we went out there and
obtained survey for the project which
allowed us to get uh a depth near the
existing bridge and that gave us a more
accurate depiction of what amount of
dirt would need be needed for this
project. When we did the conceptual kind
of big overlook of the project, we were
just kind of guessing as best we could
on what that depth would be in that
area. And then after we did get the
tamed depth, we got more detailed on the
hydraology going on. And then we um
completely did a like a hydraulic
analysis on the pipe cover option. And
then that came to us that we needed a
couple more covers instead of our
initial design showed six, the proposed
showed eight. Uh the initial so that's
what increased the cost of the project
overall from the initial conceptual
design. And then from that we uh still
came in under the bid of what the cost
would have been that we projected for
the bridge design. And uh just to go
over the bridge design a little bit that
we did in our kind of when we did our
bridge reconstruction option. We reached
out to a pre-fabricated uh bridge uh
contractor and they or supplier I mean
and they gave us a quote for what what
the bridge would cost and then we added
additional cost what it would cost to
get a crane in there to install the
bridge and then we assume that not
assumed we addressing the abutment
situation like Melanie said those
abupments need to be replaced with
either concrete or sheet piling or
something along those items and our cost
estimate reflects replacing those
abupments to be able will withstand that
new pre-fabricated bridge. So, that's
kind of the items that we looked at and
I think that's information included in
Melmy's report as well. I can expand on
any other questions or as I recall from
our conversation you had estimated
between 250 and 300,000. Our our
estimate was 264,000
and then also when for the bridge for
the bridge and then also Calhoun Burns
did a cost estimate when they did the
bridge inspection their estimate was
275,000 to replace the bridge. So two
independent engineering firms and we
came in within 5% of each other on an
engineer estimate that's pretty pretty
accurate. So that's uh how we think
about those numbers. Uh could you just
comment on the lifespan of the bridge
like that one? Yep. And then uh
maintenance and inspection cost going
forward approximately. Yeah. I don't
know about the maintenance uh or the
inspection cost, but the uh the
inspection cost they did I think it was
around $2,000 for this initial bridge
inspection they did for this uh one
here. So it probably be about 2,000. I
can talk on that. Okay. Uh I tell you
four years.
Yeah. So um we uh the city has come and
burns to several of our bridges. Um
something like this because it is not
the high hazard dam and it's not on a
state road and it's not over a railroad.
My guess is that it would be on a 4-year
rotation. Um we pay
to do several bridges. We pay between
three and seven. And I think on the
years that we have our lower numbers, we
pay like 3,000. And then on our the
years that we have higher number of
bridges, I want to say we pay like
7,000. Um so maybe it's $1,000 a bridge.
Um the the um when Walton had theirs, uh
Calhoun Burns came down and just did one
one bridge and so they had the cost of
travel and and their report time.
Whereas when Calhoun Burns comes and
does all of our city structures, um
they're lumping in that travel time
uh for all of our bridges. Um so, you
know, a safe guess would be an $1,000
every four years. Um not a lot, but it
would be something that um does
that should continue to happen. Um and
then what was your other cost or
question? No. Um potential maintenance
costs. Maintenance costs. Um so on um
And on on the bridge um the bridge
itself if um you know uh metal or um any
of those types you know is not going to
have a lot of maintenance cost. Um I
assume that we would work a lot of that
into our agreement with Walton moving
forward. Um what we would be looking at
um from the city's responsibility would
be the abutments and any of the concrete
and that's really going to um going to
dictate the life of it is the concrete
um any any part of the concrete that's
associated with it um that's going to be
um affected by free thaw and um that's
going to be that's going to dictate the
life of it. in the lifespan is about um
50 years is what we would assume. I I
think in one of my reports u when these
decisions were talked about so uh Cro
Creek Bridge now grantite different load
and everything like that but yet we're
still being exposed to free thaw um had
was 55 years old when we um replaced it
and it was on its last leg.
Okay, council. questions do you have for
Marcus or Melanie regarding that topic?
Anything?
You said eight culverts, right? Yes.
What size are they? Oh, they're 42. 42.
Yep. So that Yeah. Slight change from
the preliminary. I think we did 648.
Then we changed it to 842. Allowed for
more coverage over the pipes to help
hold those uh pipes down from floating.
So that's was one of the design changes.
All righty. Anything else? Yeah. Are we
feeling that uh one of the criticisms of
this design is that maybe it's
overbuilt?
Do you think it's overbuilt? Well, I'm
an engineer. I don't think anything's
overbuilt. But, uh
I I guess I'm not sure if that is I have
not seen that question. Um
I have. Okay. All right. So, We were
accused of overbuilding the bridge on
the spillway. Didn't we replace the
bridge with a larger bridge at the time?
We put in the central sewer in the
central water.
Yes, I do know you did that. Do you know
that historically though? I I do. That
is in the report. Um but uh if we hadn't
overbuilt, would we have been able to
take fire engines and ambulances out to
the 35 lot? Correct. And I and I will
say I mean that is listed in the in the
benefits and the pitfalls of each of the
options is um you know a bridge has a
specific width. A bridge has a specific
weight load. Um
the
a bridge a bridge can be designed to
meet whatever weight load that you need
it to. Um but the covert um HDPE with a
foot and a half cover
um is going to be able to carry a very
large load for whatever needs. Um we
can't
can't predict um what the need is going
to be in the lifespan. Um even if you
just assume a minimal lifespan of and
make everything equal of 50 years, we
don't know what's going to be needed to
go over that. just as the bridge um over
the primary spillway. So, when when was
the uh causeway at number two built?
Built on the east side. Um any idea?
[Music]
Look, Steve, you know, cuz I would have
to think really really hard and you
could probably remember quicker than me.
The causeway that runs north and south
between I think it's always been part of
the lake, but it's been rebuilt. Yeah,
it's it was red. We put the tube in
underneath of it. Um
out there 35 years. So, it's been 20 30
years ago. Yeah, it's the co the
causeway was I mean from based off the
historical aerial photos, it was always
there. Um but the tube must have been
replaced then, right? Yeah. But we're
building a causeway on that's the plan,
right? But a causeway, not a bridge
where the old cart bridge Yeah. is
located.
So, it looks just like number two's
callway roughly with more pipes, but
yes.
Okay. Okay. Anything else? Any other
questions?
Okay. Seeing none, let's uh go on to uh
our review from our city attorney. All
right.
Now, excuse me a little bit. I've got to
use a glass here.
Um, one of the things we did, uh,
basically both for the council's
information, but also to be sure we were
right on our historical beliefs, uh, is
we had several abstracts of title. Uh,
they're all the same abstract that was
prepared for our 35 lot Walton Lake
subdivision that was approved by this
council back in 2000. Uh, and before
that there was an annexation and that's
also shown in the abstract of title. In
fact, everything that's happened out at
the lake since the city owned this since
1924 is shown in an abstract of title.
So, every one of the homeowners out at
Walton Lake, uh, they have an abstract
of title, assuming they had a title
opinion done when they bought their lot.
And that abstract of title reflects
every single public record document over
in the courthouse that affects your
particular lot and also affects the
lake. Uh the lake in 1924 was deed to
the city along with a farm basically and
there really wasn't a lake at the time.
U it was more like a small pond that was
then built in to the reservoir that we
have now. Uh and um as far as the
reservoir that you have now, it's been
there since the 30s. Uh and the
reservoir that's been there since the
30s uh became the subject of various
leasing agreements with the Walton Club.
The old Walton clubhouse and the
arrangements out there to start out with
were a dollar a year. And the city
council has always recognized that place
as a pristine lake area since that
happened. Uh and the Walton Club always
agreed to help uh with uh the
recreational activities out there and
that's been a you know a centurylong
uh relationship almost. Uh the other
thing that the abstract discloses to us
that that over time there have been
different things that have gone on at
the lake. This isn't the first time in
the lakes's history that there's been
work done on the lake. And uh actually
since it's a man-made lake, you have to
picture at some time in the past when
there was some water there. There were
men walking around out there and waiters
and the lake was not as you see it
today, but there was infrastructure
installed out there that still is there
today. There's a large pipe system that
relates to interconnected reservoirs
that are not in use as surface water
reservoir storage by our present
portable water plant, but can be. And
because of that, the DNR requires uh
that we monitor the lake. They monitor
the lake. uh the lake uh as far as the
infrastructure and so forth uh the water
department, the utility department has a
right of entry always under our
ordinances and under state law. And in
addition to that uh when that place was
annexed uh and when it was subdivided
the city council and the engineer and
the planners uh from French Reneker back
then at the time uh and Bill Perry the
surveyors that did the plat for that
place uh everybody felt that we should
have a riparian easement so that the
utilities could always count on
accessing anything that's under the
surface of the water out there. So
there's some kind of misconception right
now that that lake uh maybe came like a
amenity or something of a common area
like you'd get if you bought an interest
in a condominium. It don't work like
that. Uh that lake has always been owned
by the city. It's always been regulated
by the DNR. The lake is there for your
recreation and enjoyment, but it's
subject to a very very enforcable
easement along the whole shoreline. Uh,
and it says in the abstract it's a
minimum of 10 ft uh for access of the
utilities and the use of the city.
That's also there so somebody can walk
around with his fly rod and not get in
trouble with each of the individual lots
uh that happen to butt up against the
lake. Uh, and it's also there so that if
somebody wants to pull their kayak up on
shore and take a rest, they can. But the
lake itself has several covenants.
They're all in everybody's abstract and
they basically tell you what you cannot
do at that lake. partly because the DNR
always expected those from the time of
annexation and partly because the DNR uh
continues to work with us every time we
have something going on or people have
to get in the lake and work on it. Uh so
the lake itself has always been owned
completely by the city. The city has the
uh final say on the lake. Uh that's not
intended to say that you're not entitled
as uh homeowners in a subdivision that's
on a lake to enjoy the lake every day.
You can go down, use the same riparian
easement around the lake that everybody
else u has. Uh you have a right to enjoy
the view. You have a right to canoe or
kayak. Uh do the things that are
permitted. There are several things that
aren't permitted. You can't swim in the
lake.
uh DNRs frowned on that always long
before we had the subdivision. Um you uh
basically as far as activities in the
lake that stir the uh uh water in a way
that either is damaging to the
vegetative part of the lake or is
damaging to things on the bottom of the
lake. Uh that kind of uh activity causes
motorboats not to be allowed there ever.
Uh but other than that, canoeing,
kayaking, um I suppose, uh I call them
bass floats, but some of these styrofoam
things where people can fish off of
something that is unmotorized. U they're
allowed. And I think I've seen them out
there before. Um, I've fished every
square inch of the riperian right away
out there in 50 years. Uh, it's a nice
lake. It's got good fish in it. It's
also had dead fish in it about four or
five times since 1920 or 1931.
Uh, and things have had to be worked on
out there. And I really uh I've been
bothered as far as responding to some of
the things that you've been told at the
prior meetings uh at the idea that the
city hasn't always encouraged the most
recreational use and tried to in good
faith always preserve the lake. But
sometimes it's a it's just a fact of
life. If you work on a water project,
especially if you've got infrastructure
below the surface, you're going to have
to do something. People don't work on
this with uh diving masks and that kind
of equipment. They lower the water level
and they go in with waiters at parts of
the infrastructure. Some places they
don't have to do that because it's more
accessible. But as far as the lake
itself, the lake is very vibrant. It's
always come back and the council's
interest, every council going through
right now has been that that lake will
be preserved. When I read things in the
paperwork that says we're going to ruin
the lake forever, we're going to have a
complete environmental disaster and that
the state level DNR should halt us from
working on something that we've always
completely owned, completely controlled,
and done a good job always of looking
out for the lake continuity. Um, I take
offense. So, at this point, I want you
to be assured as homeowners out there
that this lake isn't going to go away.
This lake is not going to be damaged
environmentally forever. The DNR people
that u are usually over our shoulder
while we're doing these projects. Uh
they have always been helpful and
they're going to be just as helpful this
time, too. I have no doubt that the
conversations that our city
administrator has had with them about
things that are available for
restoration uh when the lake is worked
on uh things that are available as far
as restocking as far as fish that might
die. Uh those are things that happen.
This state's got over a thousand bodies
of water that the DNR manages. And
believe me, that's the only place that's
possibly going to have some fish killed
to fix the lake and the bridge. Uh, and
it's been that way other times. We've
had draw downs when we worked on the
spillway. We've had draw downs when we
did the bridge replacement. We've had
situations where one part of the lake we
had to work on. Some of these different
kinds of dams that let you get in to a
particular area and work on something in
one area. We opt for those if we can use
them, but sometimes you can't. Uh, and
it doesn't change the fact that the
lake's still going to be restored as a
lake. It doesn't change the fact that
DNR is going to be over our shoulder,
and it doesn't change the fact that DNR
will help us also with the fish and so
forth. Um, I I thoroughly enjoy fishing
myself. I know there's some other people
I've talked to that uh have that
experience out there at the lake. And uh
I don't think you're going to lose a
fishery. I think if DNR helps with
restock and so forth, they'll also be
surveying the lake. You'll have a better
fishery by the time we're all done with
this. So, I'm not worried about that
being an environmental disaster. I'm
thinking probably an environmental
improvement as far as some of the fish
quality there. Uh, so I don't want you
to be worrying about the fish. The fish
manage to survive anyway. Uh, smell. Uh,
well, yeah. The smell is going to be
horrid. Yeah, there's a lot of fish out
there. And if the whole thing's empty,
they're going to die. I I hear you. And
I don't think that necessarily the
engineers have said the whole thing's
going to be completely empty. Uh, it'll
be low. Uh, but there's spots in that
lake, there's pools. Um, not every I
mean I I've walked across the De Moine
River when it was 6 in deep, but then I
caught catfish out of pools down there.
Fish are a little more resilient than
you're giving them credit for. Uh, but
that's not what this is about. The
bridge is something that's necessary for
human use. The fish restocking is
something that DNR will work with us on.
Uh parts of the problem here though too
are that um when you do things with the
DNR at various levels. We have a very
good uh personable relationship with our
DNR people in this part of the state and
as Doug told you they've been down and
visited with us. We were hopeful maybe
one would be here tonight. Uh but as far
as DNR viewing what we're doing as
dangerous to the environment, that's the
last thing I believe DNR thinks. Uh as
far as what we're doing as far as a
long-term solution, DNR is going to keep
its hands out of this. DNR would like to
uh have use of the lake for their survey
as far as both a subsurface topography
mapping of the lake and a fish survey.
Uh, and I don't know if there's anything
else, Doug, or not, but my recall is
that uh we didn't see any problem with
them doing that, except for the fact
that we have a prohibition uh by our own
city rules about putting any boats on it
uh that are motorized. And my guess is
that DNR's
even with electric motors, they're going
to be bigger than we're used to on that
lake. But DNR basically, I believe they
have the authority. they could come in
and tell us what they want to do instead
of asking for permission about what they
want to do. Uh, and I think it will be
for everybody's betterment if they do
those surveys and have that to help with
the restoration, the restocking, and
those kinds of questions going forward.
So, uh, that's all consistent with a
good faith effort by the council to do
the lake as a continuing, uh,
recreational,
uh, and entertainment source as well as
backup reservoir. But that as well as
backup reservoir, uh, is essential as
far as dealing with uh, DNR. Um, uh,
I've been involved since Bob Parkin was
a city attorney back in the 80s, and
this isn't the first time that people
that lived out at Walton Lake came in to
see the council or the council went out
to see them. Uh, in the late 80s, there
were problems with DNR being bothered by
something called seepage. And the
seepage was because some of the septics
behind the cabins that were out there
that people paid $100 a year to lease a
patch of land for um they had homemade
septic systems on some of them and the
seepage no matter how it was supposed to
be directed some of it was being
detected in the lake and DNR was furious
with us. In the '90s DNR came down and
made demands. Uh in the 90s I was the
city attorney. Bob Bob Parkin had
retired uh and different people from the
group that were cottage uh lot renters
out there at the time met again uh and
they were afraid of the DNR solution.
The DNR solution at that time was you
got 18 or 20 of these cabins out here on
lots you had $100 a year.
This could just as easily be a meadow if
you're not really willing to fix the
seepage problem uh and do something
about central water as well as central
sewer. Uh and at that time uh it was
sort of a standoff for a while as far as
the uh the lot owners out there. The
city council was faced with a question
about whether they were going to cancel
leases. The leases for everybody out
there were up in 1998. Uh most of the
people out there that had a $100 a year
deal. Uh they still wanted to live on
the lake. So the council at that time
came up with a plan and it's what you
got today. your your homes out there and
your lots were the part of a solution to
put in a centralized sewer system and a
centralized water system and make uh
that cost efficient by selling lots that
covered back uh the cost of that
infrastructure. It also involved taking
out old septic, filling in makeshift
tanks or removing tanks uh and assuring
uh the DNR that there was no reason not
to allow people to reside on the edge of
the lake. Uh and that's the been the
posture back then 20 25 years ago. We
had to go through some other hoops to
get you what uh is a very nice
subdivision out there. Uh you have u
what I call a corridor annexation out
there. the Burlington Northern Railway.
We had to mess around with them for
about a year because it's basically
your extension of the city limits
boundary from what is uptown by the high
school going back in the direction of
Walton. Uh and corridor annexation is
frowned on very much so uh by the city
development board. In fact, they've
turned us down another place where we
wanted to do corridor annexation up by
our airport and use Highway One as a
corridor to treat as adjacent city
property that would touch on property up
there that we wanted to enex. So, it
doesn't always work. But anyway, the
Burlington Northern Railway was willing
to cooperate with us and let us have
their rightway basically to treat as the
corridor out to Walton. Uh, and that
whole subdivision at that point became a
part of the city limits of the of
Fairfield and your subdivision was the
next step after it was an addition to
the city. So that took us a year, year
and a half to get there. And then we did
the subdivision. And the other thing
that was extended for all of you that
have abstracts uh was we allowed the
people one at a time that were going to
stay out there in their cabins uh to
meet with Bill Perry from French Renker
and draw the lot lines for a lot that
they were going to have a cabin on. We
expected everybody out there to improve
their cabin to the point where it
complied with our city zoning code
building size requirements. There isn't
anything out there right now that
doesn't comply with our zoning code as
far as building size requirements. We
also had uh one massive jigsaw project
out there as far as getting the lots
organized the way they are in the
subdivision plat right now so that the
lots complied with our city or owners as
far as lot size. Every one of your lots
out there is compliant with our zoning
ordinance. They weren't when they were
$100 a year. Hey, John. Yeah. Sorry to
interrupt you, but we have one minute
basically now till 7 o'clock. And so,
uh, we do want to start the council
meeting on time because we've got a long
meeting. So, hopefully you got in all
your most important points. Well, I'm
just going to say that the the lots that
are out there in that subdivision paid
for the infrastructure, almost a million
dollars worth of it, by the time we sold
all the lots. The city council attitude
about that place as a continuing lake
and as a nice place to live is still the
same as it was 50 years ago. Still the
same as the time that we had it
subdivided and put it up for sale. So,
you know, please understand the city's
not against you on this. All right.
Okay. So, that will conclude our work
session. Council, do you does anybody
need a break or Yes.
2 minute break. 2 minute break. There's
going
[Music]
So, you know, thank you for being quiet.
We're going to start the council
meeting. I'm going to open uh our
session now. Uh please call the role to
Hill here. Flora, yes. Andy, yes. Can
Yes. Ro, you're here. Great. Thank you.
Is there any changes council to the
agenda? Anybody have any change? Not
we'll move on to the consent agenda.
Approval of the minutes of the May 27,
2025 council meeting. Approval of the
June 6, 2025 payroll in the amount of
$230,8523.
Acceptance of beautifification
commission minutes. Acceptance of
Carnegie Museum board minutes.
Resolution of assignment of additional
additional duties of personnel. Approval
of liquor license for the Hideaway Pub
LLC and BPO Elk Club. Number 1192, Elks
Lodge, sorry.
Approval of a payment to the Department
of Revenue in the amount of 14,20791.
Approval of special claim uh Midwest 1
in the amount of 9,10492.
Approval of special claim WEX in the
amount of 3,341.84.
Approval of total claims in the amount
of $334,642.71.
We did have one claim more than 75,000
to Krishnner Contracting which was for a
fire station in the amount of 194,12.71.
I make the motion we approve the consent
agenda. Okay. Moved by Florenoi. Second.
Second by Gandandy. Questions? Just a
comment. Uh when the beautifification
commission met, they did not have a
quorum. So I think they should be
reminded they need to have a quorum in
order to do business. Okay.
Thank you. I did review the claims and
everything seemed in order. Okay, great.
Thanks.
You want to communicate that? Okay,
great.
Okay, with that, any other questions?
Hearing none, uh, please call the role.
Florenoi, yes. Gandandy, yes. Ro, yes.
Although I'll be abstaining from the
approval of the minutes of the previous
meeting. Knees, yes. Duville, yes.
Okay, great. That was approved. So, we
do have several public forum and
appearances, and I would like to remind
everybody who's speaking to give us your
name. Uh, let us know what ward you're
in, and uh, certainly if you're going to
speak about Walton, let us know if you
lived out there. I think that would be
nice. The council knows. Um, and, uh,
you will have 3 to five minutes.
Hopefully, you can do it quick in three
minutes. Uh, but we will double time.
I'll give you kind of a
tell you what. I'm going to do this my
yellow my yellow thing um at 3 minutes.
So hopefully you can wrap up any any uh
thoughts um and be done by five. I will
flash the yellow or the red card at 5
minutes. So um and I just ask that
people be respectful. let the person
talk there and when they're done,
council can ask questions and vice
versa. If council's talking, um that you
not interrupt the council person if
they're having a comment to the speaker.
And this isn't a public forum and in the
sense that um you know where anybody
gets to raise their hand at any time,
just the people who are assigned to come
up and speak and have asked and
requested, that's what we'll stick to
tonight. And so again, we have several
plus we have another report from our
library director. So let's get started.
Our first one is Rachel Cannon. Uh it's
related to a water bill belonging to a
tenant. So if you could address the
council and tell us what the issue is.
Should I give you a copy of what I have?
I I think they've seen it on their It's
what you gave to the council earlier,
right? Yeah. So they've seen it. Okay.
if it's it's attached to up there.
My name is Rachel Kon.
I have been a landlord for 26 years
and um although I don't live in
Fairfield any longer,
I I am here every year um during the
summer to take care of my rental
properties.
Last June,
I I I went to the water um water
department to ask them to reconnect my
water on uh rental properties. I had to
drain the pipe during the winter. My
renter left. So I wanted to make sure
for my next renter I will have it would
be fine. But the city, the water
department said, "Oh, well, we are not
going to do so unless you pay your
bills." And I said, "Sorry, I don't live
here. I don't have any water bill." So
they said, "Yes, you owe us $1982
here on your apartment A." Uh, I said,
"Ampon A?" Yes. They said, "You open the
door for us to read your meter August
16, 2024."
and you open the door again uh one week
later August 23rd
to read the meter again. Well, I said,
"Well, kid, this is this is not possible
because I always go back to California
uh the beginning of August and I have my
ticket here. I flew August 7, 2024 from
Tidar Rapid to Los Angeles.
So when I went to the department of
water, I thought that
the meter activity was looking a little
bit weird
because the reading whether you look at
it August 16 or August 23rd,
2024, it's the same reading. In other
word, there is no water. No water has
been used. Yet the city said I owe them
180 gallon of water.
So I talked to what's her name? Laura.
Laura Franklin. She works at the office,
you know, uh the water department. And
she looked at her computer and she said,
"Oh, this is um
an estimate for July 2024." But July
um 1st of July 2024 I had a new renter
called devotey of men and devotey of men
is
has a contract that's his rental
agreement and it's written on it leis
shall be responsible for arranging for
and paying for all utilities
uh services required on the premises.
So, uh I always try to make sure there
is a good connection between my new
renter and the one who is living. So,
then one week before Deb Offman came to
the apartment, I sent him an email
reminding him what he's supposed to do.
Deb, that's an email. My email I sent to
him on June 26, one about one week
before he entered the apartment. I said,
"Dev, make sure to make sure we
understand each other. Please put your
name on electricity, gas, and water on
or before June 29, 2024.
Conor Everight is leaving June 29,
2024.
Connor Everight and
Deb Offman were friends. This is why I
took Deb because he recommended him, you
know. Uh so then I did not have any gap
between my two renters.
So
from my point of view, this bill I'm
here tonight to ask the board of trustee
to recognize that this water bill of
$1982
do not does not belong to me and we
could say it belonged to Canor ever
because Canor did not
disconnect his water meter but they were
friend. I think Connor just thought
everything should be fine. So, um we
could say this bill belonged to Connor,
but yet it still does not look really
correct to me. And um the question is
who used the water?
The water has been used by death of men.
So I do believe that dead of men should
pay the invoice.
So a renter was leaving. Yes. And there
was a new person coming in. Yes. One did
not cut it off and the next person
didn't sign up. The the one did cut it
off the day he left. It was
disconnected. It was his last day. The
new ren did not sign up for it. Okay. In
time. So, the new renter used two about
2 weeks of water and then they left. Oh,
so he's still they Well, they're still
They still I I believe they're still
there, right?
He You mean dev of of men? Dev of men. I
had to evict him. He's supposed to to go
out of the apartment actually last
Thursday. Okay. So, that person's gone.
So, it will be because he's still dead.
I'm I'm in the understanding that the
second renter owes her the money. So
that's a that's a return case between
the two of them. Have you returned his
deposit to him? Excuse me. Have you
returned his deposit to him? He owe me
four months of rent. But do they do you
have a deposit from him? Yes, I have
one. Take the money out of the deposit
and give him the balance. Well, she's
still three months short on the deposit.
Oh, he owes four months worth of rent.
She has a one-mon deposit. It's I'm
agreeing with I hear that part. Sounds
like small claims. Yeah. Yeah. Your
honor, let me suggest something else.
Yes. Okay. There's a state code
provision, Rachel. You can file a notice
with the city that you're the landlord
and that you have a written lease with a
tenant and an understanding that the
tenant is going to hiccup or hitch up in
the uh tenants's name uh within a
reasonable amount of time, usually 30
days. If you file that notice with the
city, it will also tell the city that
the city is supposed to give you a
notice if there's a problem that comes
up with delinquency on the part of the
tenant. Usually, the purpose of that
would be to let you know in enough time
so you don't get stuck 4 months behind
and no way to recapture the water bill.
Uh,
you've never filed one of those, have
you?
All right. All right. Well, I'm telling
you, you can do that in the future and
it might save you this problem the next
time. But if you let the city hall know
that you got a tenant, the tenants
supposed to be in to sign up soon and
that you are not going to be responsible
for the tenants's bill, unless
uh after the city gives you a notice of
the delinquency, it's ignored completely
by both you and the tenant. I'm sorry. I
still do not fully understand. I did not
have Did I speak too fast for you? I I
didn't mean to. No, I understand that I
need to fill out the form and then I
will do so. All right. What what I do
not understand right now is I did not
have any gap between two renters
and I did not give you a lot of detail
because it's a long story. But when I
went to the city to the water department
twice telling them that I had a new
renter, they keep saying the same thing.
Ask your renter to stop by our office
with this ID and we will proceed. You
know, right? It did not help. No, you
you and you didn't have a gap between
the two runners. The one moved in, you
did not have a gap between the two
runners. And the letter you sent him to
tell him to hook up utilities right
away. He didn't. He didn't do. He did
not. He did not do that. No. No. So, you
own the building. So, you're responsible
for the the water. You say it's because
he he is responsible, but that's between
you and him. That's not between the city
and him.
So from the from the point that he
hooked up, we build him, but he didn't
hook up right away. There was a gap
between the time he moved in and the
time that he signed up. One week, five
weeks. Yeah. And and you you I mean, you
told him he needed to hook up right
away. He just failed to do that.
Yes. And I came to the city.
Let's let me said, what about if I go to
the water department? I show them my
rental agreement and why the city do not
proceed with this instead of you did
nothing wrong but that that's that's an
agreement between you and your tenant
not between the city and your tenant.
Yeah. So the city is building me because
as the owner of the building. Yes.
I don't find that fair. Wow. I did not
use I'm sorry.
So it's going to be Yeah. an issue
between you and that person. So he he
owes you the money. He owes you the
money. So yeah, he never paid for your
Yeah. If you do your lease as an
attachment to a small claims, I think
the magistrate would be very sympathetic
toward you.
Okay. Thank you.
Okay. Thank you. Um Deborah Senator,
hello. So, another water bill issue, but
a little bit different. Um, I um I live
at 500 West Merrill. Um, I have a water
bill that is normally what I consider
pretty high, but we do have good usage.
We have four adults in the house. I
recently got a $500 water bill, which is
way, way higher. Um, you know, almost
three times our normal water bill. um
and was shocked by it. It's a small
house. I work from home. Um so of course
I called um Fairfield Waterworks, talked
to them. Um they sent me to um Steve
Readinger and he's a wonderful
gentleman. He came out to my house. We
looked all through the house at anything
that could possibly, you know, indicate
that amount of usage. Um and could find
nothing. Um, and as he says, he's not in
my home. He doesn't know what happens in
my home. Um, he brought up several
different things that it could be. None
of them applied. I'm assuming that you
got you received my email and was able
to read through it. I can I'll just
quickly go through the different
scenarios and why I don't think they are
valid scenarios. Um,
long story short is he went and scanned
my usage for that month and it shows
pretty much hour by hour the amount of
usage. There were five days where hour
by hour there was 17 times the amount of
normal usage started at um I'd have to
look at this to see the exact time, but
it started at about um I think 11:30 in
the day and then 5 days later ended at
like midnight. Um, I live in a small
house. I work from home. My office is
right outside my kitchen. It's right
next to my bathroom and there's one
other bathroom upstairs and then there's
the downstairs. I can hear if water is
running. We have cameras on our house.
We have three faucets. The cameras can
see all three faucets. So, we went
through different scenarios. Um and mind
you that 5 days of 17 times the usage
started and stopped with no difference
in how we are using our water in our
home. Um so um I did a um AI search of
course to figure out what it could
possibly be. I also talked to Steve
about this. He came out to my home twice
and we looked at everything. Um AI
indicates that um there can be
crossmeter readings. I believe I have a
smart bill because a smart meter because
they take it from the curb. I
understand. Um and it says here it's
possible that your meter is incorrectly
assigned. Um you could have been build
for someone else's spike. Um and that
that's a pretty common thing. I'm asking
if you can verify the meter to home
mapping. Faucet left on by accident. I
checked my cameras for outside faucets
for those five days and saw absolutely
no indication of someone coming up to
the house. Stephen had indicated a
neighbor or someone could have come up
and used my faucet. The cameras proved
that that did not happen inside the
house for 17 times usage per hour for 5
days. I would have seen water. I would
have heard water. Um
let's see here. Toilet flapper leak. um
very common thing that I know happens in
homes, but it wouldn't happen and use 17
times the amount of water in five days.
And quite honestly, I would have heard
it because of my proximity as well. Um
neighbor utility company mistakenly
using your tap again. The cameras show
that nothing like that happened. Um,
they also indicated that possibly some
sort of contractor in the area could
have hooked up somehow to my meter and
had that usage. I don't know. Doesn't
make sense to me.
um temporary equipment malfunction. I'm
told that there's no way that the meters
can make a mistake, but from the
googling that I did, it does say that it
mistakes can be made um and that they
can be made due to a malfunction or um
you know, something like that. One of
the things Steve um asked me about was
like a water softener that could have
taken in a bunch of water, but we don't
have that. Um, our ceiling is open in
the basement, so we could see if there
was any water puddling. And again, 17
times the amount of usage per hour for 5
days, starting and stopping without any
indication of change in our usage or
home and no indication of water. So,
Deb, just to bring it all in because
we're at I think we're at 5 minutes.
Yes. I'm sorry. What are you ultimately
requesting? I'm requesting that I just
be charged the maximum bill that I've
ever had, which is 190, which I think is
really high, but nonetheless, and to let
go of the rest of it. I do intend to
install another meter after your meter
so that I can measure in the future and
we could compare. Um, but I just don't
understand how that's even possible. I
don't mind paying a bill if I've used
the water and I know things can happen,
but I see no logical explanation for
this and I can show you this also which
they printed out for me. Steve, do you
want to add anything uh at this point?
She pretty much summed it all up.
It did start at cuz Jared Goodri and I
went there and we data logged it. Yeah.
Which was a good thing so we could see
what happened. Mhm. And it started on
April of 28th at 12:40 a.m. And it ran
for those 5 days until 11:40.
I think it was A.M. Yeah, remember it
was during the day. Yep. Yeah. 11:40
a.m.
And that breaks down to about 2 and 12
gallons per minute is what it was
running.
The only
The only explanation I have for that is
uh it had to be a toilet. Mhm. I looked
all over the house like Deb said. She
had three faucets outside. Three toilets
and I could hear them running cuz my
office is right by them. Yeah. Three of
them. Okay. One in the basement and two
upstairs. One upstairs and one floor and
second floor and then one the basement
which is only used for emergency
situations. Yes. The basement. Yeah. But
it's a brand new toilet. There's no
indication of it running. You know, I I
know you you don't have to believe me,
but I have very good hearing and I'm
very aware of that sort of thing. I have
had a toilet run before and I hear it
and I go and take care of it. Um I'm
always home so it just makes no sense to
me and I don't think my bill would be,
you know, three times the amount of
usage from a toilet running for 5 days.
But toilet leaks can vary. They can be
like 0.03 gallons per minute. If it's
just a flapper and it's barely cracked
to an open flapper, well, that's wide
open. Or the float sticks and it's going
over the overflow. Yeah. Non-stop.
Okay. So, council, what what do you want
to do?
Any thoughts?
And I've already paid that $190.
What's what's that little dingy song?
I've got a question. Um, how likely
would it be if a flapper does open
significantly to allow gallons of
leakage um per hour or whatever happened
for it to randomly close again, right?
and for the leak to seal up completely.
Somebody used that toilet and didn't use
it again, right? Goes down there and
touched that handle.
I just want to point out that my son
works upstairs in his room from home
where his toilet is, you know, a part of
his room. I work right next to my
bathroom. The toilet's on the other side
of the wall. I would hear that amount of
water. I would hear it running. I just I
just don't think it's possible. Like I
said, if I really felt that there was
something, I would pay the bill in full.
I just think there's some mistake.
And those meters, they all have their
serial number. Each serial number is for
that residence. And that's the only
residence that's going to read. So I
know you can Google everything. Yeah.
Which is fine. But it just reads for
that residence. That's why we have our
serial number, model numbers connected
to all those accounts. That's why we
keep track of them. We don't want
anybody messing with the meters or any
of that. So, we know. Steve, is there a
way to check the
U accuracy of the meter?
Yeah, we can bring it in. And when I was
there, well, you take it out and bring
it in. Yeah, we bring it in and test it
because it plus or minus 2%.
It says a power surge, software glitch,
or misread data can cause a shortterm
spike that doesn't reflect actual usage.
Yeah. So,
never seen it happen. That's just
okay. I also did on Facebook try to ask
people if anyone else has had a similar
thing and people did respond and of
course every case is unique. Um but
so yeah. So any action at this point
council?
I think is is there any chance you could
prove it was outside? I I have cameras
now. The only thing is our cameras are
um our software it only holds it for 30
days and then it doesn't hold it
anymore. But I did check all the cameras
and there's no indication of, you know,
anyone going up to a faucet, anything
like that.
And of course, it' been 30 days since
she got the bill. And then I was called
to look at it. Now, I could go She had
three outside faucets. Yeah. And she had
uh those water sprinklers, two of those.
I have I have a motion sensor water
sprinkler that will keep the deer from
eating my garden. And um believe me, if
it is going off, I hear it. And if it's
windy is part of the thing that can make
it go off a lot, I hear it and I turn it
off.
And I go in and out of the house, so
there's no way you're going to see that.
And I even looked on the cameras. You
don't see it going off constantly
or even a lot. It's very rare. It's only
on at night, too. those water sprint uh
motion sensor cuz that's when the deer
come.
So I don't think you would see 17 times
the usage for 5 days in that case
either.
I think there I think the case is we've
never in a situation like this. I don't
think the city's ever forgiven the water
bill. But what we could do what might be
good is to bring in the meter. We can
check it's calibrated correctly.
um have I think referred to water and
sewer and have them make a
recommendation to the council. Yeah, we
do that.
We'll be a motion. Okay, it's been moved
and seconded to move it after the
water testing, the meter testing. Can I
just ask can is there a way to tell if
it's malfunctioned by what you
recommended? Yeah, just the data log
that just showed it the usage of it.
Okay. So, uh, review it at the water and
sewer committee. Um, providing
too, I'm welcome. You're welcome to
attend the water and sewer committee
meeting. Yeah. So, yeah. So, that's
open. So, um, go ahead and call the
role. Gandi, yes. Florenoy, yes. Two
Hill, yes. Kess, yes. Ro, yes. Okay,
great. Thank you. Okay, next up is Alex
uh Munis, our library director.
Good evening.
Thank you for the opportunity to speak
opportunity to speak with you tonight.
I'm here on behalf of the Fairfield
Public Library Board of Trustees to
share an update from our May board
meeting regarding the use of library
reserve funds.
At that meeting, the board unanimously
passed a motion to distribute a
certificate of deposit currently held at
Midwest One Bank valued at $72,000.
These funds will be directed towards
several significant deferred maintenance
needs and to support our ongoing library
renewal project. The projects currently
earmarked for funding include one,
meeting room flooring replacement. The
public meeting room flooring is original
to the building and is in need of
replacement. We are considering two
options. commercial carpet tile
estimated at $7,500
including installation or commercial
vinyl flooring estimated at $9,300.
Two, youth services design fees. $7,000
has been allocated to engage MSR design
of Minneapolis to to develop a
conceptual redesign of our youth
services department. This will give us
this will help us envision and plan for
a modern inclusive space for children,
families, and caregivers.
Three, gutter replacement contingency.
The library's gutter replacement is
scheduled for 2026 and partially and in
large part funded through local option
sales tax revenues. Based on an updated
estimate, an additional $7,000 to
$10,000 may be required beyond our
current budget.
And four, public restroom updates. We
plan to modernize our public restrooms
by installing new sink counters, sensor
operated faucets, and updated stall
partitions to improve hygiene,
accessibility, and and appearance. In
addition to these projects, the board is
actively exploring the viability of
using a portion of these funds toward
the f toward a future roof replacement
for the library. The roof is approaching
the end of its useful life, and early
estimates place the cost between 280,000
and 300 and $300,000.
We are currently researching funding
opportunities through the USDA's
community facilities program as well as
grant programs administered by the Iowa
Department of Economic Development.
These investments reflect our board's
commitment to maintaining a safe,
functional, and welcoming library that
meets the evolving needs of our
community. The decision to release these
funds was made with careful
consideration and with an eye toward
long-term stewardship of our public
building. Thank you for your continued
support of the library. I would be happy
to answer any questions. Any
questions? Council,
I have a quick c question outside of
this. Did you meet with supervisors this
morning on the opioid request? I did and
they approved the the request. I was so
happy. I was going to bring it up here
at under the mayor's thing, but I knew
you spoke there. So, can you briefly
just Yes. let them know what your
request was cuz the city has money
there, too. And we've always done the
vote here, too. So um but it's good to
know that they approved. Yes. Yes. Well
um I this this past year I was a
participant in the leadership fairfield
next level leader program. Um and as
part of that program I was required to
develop um a vision for a community
improvement project. And one of my
projects it um is a read to recovery
collection for the public library that
would include literature um related to
um recovery um self-help um general
wellness um kind of around um around
trauma mental health challenges um and
I've connected with local 12step program
members who have um expressed a
willingness to contribute um annually at
no cost literature um approved within
their own organizations. But um I I
wanted to get
more recent um kind of alternate
perspectives on addiction and recovery
and mental health. Um and and so so I've
been, you know, looking for funding in
the community and uh Ken Daly actually
brought to my attention the funds
through the opioid settlement. Um and so
I requested $3,000 from the the
supervisors to purchase a um mobile um
book cart that has sort of a display
component built into it. It's um made of
steel, I believe. and um ma um made by
um Library Furniture International out
of Ankeny, Iowa. Um the uh with the cost
of the um the shelving unit will have
probably close to $1,000 to see the
collection with literature and um most
likely we're going to um keep this unit
this the shelving unit um in the sort of
outer lobby so that people can very
freely take from this who are in need.
Okay. So, council, I was going to report
on this in the mayor's area because we
do have an opioid meeting tomorrow
morning and then I found out that uh one
of the supervisor had asked you to come
to the supervisor's meeting to this
morning. So, um they've approved it and
I think um if you guys want to just if
somebody I'll make the motion to approve
$3,000 out of the opioid settlement for
this project. That'd be great. Thank I'd
heard I just wanted to share that I had
heard that you know like as of as of a
year ago or last October nationwide
opioid related deaths had decreased but
in Iowa they had actually increased um
from the the year previous and also as
of last fall the state still had $147
million that was um had not been
expended. So I thought probably
Jefferson County has some funds to
provide for this. Yeah, I'm excited
about it. So, is there a second to Mr.
Flores? Second. Second by Gandandy. Any
discussion? All those in favor say I. I.
All those opposed, same sign. Great.
That's approved and it's great. Great uh
great opportunity. I'm glad you brought
it forth. We've been looking for ways
to, you know, useful ways to spend that
money. Thank you so much. Great. Thank
you. Thanks for what you're doing. Okay.
Um let's move forward and I'm gonna move
these over here to Doug. He can do the
Sorry, but I can't pay attention and pay
attention. I'm not good. You're doing
two things, right? You're the heavy.
Yep. He's He's going to be the heavy.
So, uh, first up is Tom Terrarion and,
uh, so go ahead, Tom. Okay. Well, um, I
was here once before and I just wanted
to just kind of do a timeline because
Connie, the last meeting you had, you
kept saying, "Where were you? Where were
you? Where were you?" while I was I was
here before this these decisions were
made and I had inquired on them and I'm
going to read this straight of emails um
mainly because I kind of represent now
the the entire Walton Lake community out
here um you may you know it was
interesting I was reading the report
from the DNR that came in just at the
last minute Doug you were kind enough to
send it out and the first of the
stakeholders that they listed were land
owners
And little history on Walton is when I
bought the lot back in 2004.
Um I was one of the first to do it and
it was kind of fun. We had to have a a
an auction. I paid for what I thought I
was going to get and we had to auction
the lot off and end up getting another
lot. But the point is I built a house
there. Um and now there are and I would
be interesting to do the study to see
how much how much in taxes this program
that you outlined very well. Um, as far
as the improvements that were done in
that community, there are 35 lots for
sale. I think that the tax revenues
there now in the in the adjacent
property over across the lake in the
across the street that uses the Walton
Lake uh sewer um is over $240,000 a year
and it's a far cry from what it was in
2004. So, we had it has built up to a
very beautiful community. Um, the thing
was that what happened was, and I'm
going to read these to you, and I'm
sorry Terry, you're you're you picked
the short straw on this one because
you're you're our Walton Lake
representative. Um, but it's and this is
basically the way it went. Um, Terry,
I've been informed by a neighbor, and
this is on September 23rd, uh, by a
neighbor you were planning to drain the
lake in October, which I thought that
was the rumor, to repair a bridge on the
golf course. Tom, what year is this?
2024. Thank you. Um, how many feet down
is it going to go? And I and I'm
surprised why we were not notified of
this. Have you checked with the DNR? Is
there going to be adequate amount of
water remaining for the fish and other
wildlife? The last thing we want is a
lot of dead fish.
Thanks for your reply. We're at 2273
Walton Lake Drive. Um, Terry did respond
that evening at 9:25. Hi. Hi, Tom. We
are not at that point yet. It has not
been decided even how to proceed at this
point. We'll keep you posted. Now, Gary,
at that point, you did know of three
options. Um, this was in this was in
September of 23. It's just the more
information that we can we have, the
more that we canate how we can offer
ideas to you about how to do this. The
only the main thing I wanted was not to
see the lake drained. That was Wait, you
said September 23 or 24? 23. 2024.
September. September 23. 2024. All
right. Thank you. Okay. Then I hadn't
heard anything.
Tom, I was just going to mention that
property committee last year in 24 was
Florenoi, Gandandy, and SD. So Terry
wasn't on the property committee at No,
this was the Ways and Means. I
understand. Um, she was on Ways and
Means, but not property. So then then I
measured I measured then I on October
3rd of 2024 I measured I went out and
measured the existing bridge um found it
was 6 ft by 72 ft. Yes, the the areas on
the end needed needed attention. Um the
you know but I did point out that
Michael Porter had a 48 foot bridge up
on his land that had a 9,000lb breaking
load that went across the Crow Creek.
and I invited anybody and everybody to
go down and look at. Mike was more than
happy to show it. Um the point is is
that that weight load is more than
enough to service as a golf cart bridge.
Granted, it's not going to get an rescue
vehicle across it, but there's plenty of
other ways to get to somebody if they're
having problems. Um then at on October,
this is the important thing here. On
October 14th, you sent me a response
back from that October 3rd email saying,
"This is great information, Tom. Thanks
for sharing. I'll pass it along."
That's the last I've heard of this. The
point is is that when I I you know, like
everybody has family and has things that
go on in life, and I'm sure everyone
here does, and I my heart goes out to
every one of you for running this
running this city. But the point is, I'd
never received any information relative
to what you had decided. But in fact, on
the 14th of October, the the leaning was
towards the culvert.
And then at 9:30, Terry, you you emailed
me saying, "Great information. I'll pass
it along." It would have been helpful to
know that you were leading towards the
Culbert because we then have multiple
city residents out at Walton Lake that I
know very well and I'd bring them in on
the discussion. All of this wouldn't
have wouldn't even have happened. It
would have happened in the proper time
frame and I you know and I take offense
to the idea that well Tom Tyrion
presented some bridge idea but nobody
called me back. I mean come on. They're
first of all it was an Oregon company.
They they they're 2 hours beforehand.
When did Renker try to call him? At 8:00
in the morning or 9:00 in the morning.
They may have been asleep. I don't
honestly I don't know. And I'm not going
to that's not my fingerpointing at this
point. It's just being included in the
conversation is my point. And it's just
like, you know, nobody called him back.
That's the way I feel. Nobody got back
to me. Nobody gave me any information
hosting any relevant information based
on my ultimate concern in the beginning
was I didn't want the lake drained.
Okay. And and that's that's pretty much
the deal that I was here. I was waiting
for you guys to work with me. Thanks
Tom. Appreciate it. Um any questions for
Tom Council? So Tom, you your first
email was in September. Is that right?
24 September 23rd, 2024. How did you
know to contact someone in September of
2014? Well, if you heard I had been
informed by a neighbor you're planning
to drain the lake. It could have been
one of the golfers. I I'm familiar with
the folks there. But again, the land
owners, see, these are land owners.
We're not Paul. We're not the golfers
that were intrinsically tied to this
bridge. We're the people that live and
and prosper on that on the lots that
surround the lake. We enjoy it. I mean,
we've we've invested millions of dollars
in the properties out there. So, you
heard by word of mouth. What are you
saying? Okay. Did you look at any city
council posting or any notice of the No,
I did not city meetings. I I turned to
my ward one person. Is there a Is there
Let me ask you something. Is there a
board? Is there a Warden? Is there a
Walton board? It's a Walton No, there's
no there's no homeowners association. Is
there a Walton board? Like a Walton club
board or something like that? Not that
I'm a member of. Yeah, the club and the
land land owners if you're if you're a
member of it. I'm not a member of the
club. The point is it's you folks are
representatives for me. It's as if
you're you're I'm sitting in your chair
and that's that's the way I felt the
city is run. It's a representative
government and all I'm looking at is
just I was given no information and as a
result I could have guided everyone else
in here that is a resident out there
because they're now concerned and
they're just wondering well how did this
happen? Okay,
thank you. Any other questions? Your
point is well taken. Any question? Yeah.
Tom, um yeah, I appreciate the way
you've stayed on this and I've been
listening closely. Um, let's say that
the DNR
and the city engineering pair, the
Prince Renker Insights and the city
engineer,
after a survey of the lake and after a
survey of the fish population, they
think the lake's going to be better if
it's drained. Isn't that a decision that
belongs to the council? It it is, but
it's also it should be we should be
readily informed because of where when
we came out here when you when you sold
us these lots, the first thing you
featured was Walton Lake lots. And all
I'm getting at is we we bought into that
and and I appreciate we h we we've
enjoyed it being there, but it's just
just like the DNR said, the first
stakeholder is the land owner. Now, as
far as being informed, yeah, you have
your rules as far as how the city works.
There's it's kind of antiquated, quite
frankly, in terms of being able to get
the word out. Um, people are not tied to
newspapers anymore. The newspaper what
comes out once a week, twice, twice.
Yeah. Well, okay. The point is it's just
people are more email oriented there.
And there's even a discussion coming up
relative to that. And another thing
that's come up and I will present it to
Terry again because he's my word one
person is this irrigation issue
and you know I've been talking to Larry
Pageant about that and it's you know
there's 130,000 gallons of water a day
that's being used out of that lake and
there's an 8 in pipe that comes out and
supplies over 60 homes off of that off
of that spot and I'm wondering what my
water pressure is going to be like now
if you give that away. Plus, if you sell
it, it's it's one thing, but if you're
giving it away, that's a resource that
we pay for to get processed. So, all of
this is stuff to think about, and I
appreciate your time, but I also just
understand, you know, it's it's
unfortunate that communication wasn't
coming both ways. Okay. Thank you, Tom.
Appreciate it. Uh, next is Vessna
Lavina. I hope I sp said your name
correctly. Thank you.
So, just as you said, my name is Esna
Lavina and I'm going to read because I'm
a little shy. So, what ward are you in?
I'm in ward one. Okay. And do you live
at the lake? No. Okay. Okay. No. Just
speak loudly so people can hear you and
get closer to the mic. There you go. Got
it. Will that do? Yeah, I think that's
better. Good. So, uh, there's not much I
can say about myself except that I have
spent tens of thousands of hours walking
Fairfield's park and trail system,
delighting in its beauty and its
diversity. Does my love for this
treasure qualify me to speak to you
today? I don't know, but it has
certainly made me bold. So, I'd like to
start with the obvious truth that all
life is precious. We all know this yet
it needs addressing because the system
we operate in is falling short on the
standards we take for granted in our
personal lives.
I cannot imagine that any of you are
prepared to confide truly confide to
your beautiful magical children and
grandchildren that you are determined to
carry out a death sentence on tens of
thousands of creatures and a beautiful
innocent lake that has only ever brought
joy and upliftment to the city of
Fairfield.
and that in the matter of replacing a
bridge across Walton Lake, you are
willing to spend vastly more of the
city's money on an option that kills the
lake than it would cost to install a
bridge that allows it to live. Fairfield
is incredibly blessed with the legacies
of those who had the wisdom, vision, and
generosity of spirit to make it a place
so richly endowed with natural beauty
for all to enjoy. Walton Lake is a gem
in the garland of Fairfield's park and
trail system. Killing it squanders our
treasure on every possible level. It
destroys life needlessly. It sacrifices
the economic benefits of mature
ecosystems, both tangible and
intangible. It trashes our history. It
destroys the public trust. It dismisses
the passion and contribution of our most
creative and devoted citizens and it
sets an example for man's relationship
with the natural world which is not only
outdated but unconscionable.
If we're going to invoke history, as
members of the council have suggested,
let us recall the oral constitution of
the Irakcoy Confederacy, which states
that in every deliberation, we must
consider the impact on the seventh
generation. Killing a lake for no good
reason betrays the very soul of the
indigenous peoples who loved and revered
this land and its waters long before us.
Killing a lake is nothing like pressing
an off button. Bringing it back to life
is nothing like pressing that button
back on. We take for granted that nature
will always spring back to life. That
communities will do the same. But beyond
a certain point, they don't. Ecosystems
collapse. Caring citizens disengage or
get angry. I'm no paragon, but I was
taken by surprise at how angry I felt
when the council invoke invoked
procedure to justify destroying a lake.
When it blamed those who' failed to stay
its hand by a certain date as grounds
for persisting on a dreadful course of
action, when it covered for its failure
to clearly inform the public of its
plans to drain Walton Lake. The social
fabric is built on our contract with the
divine in us and equally on our contract
with the natural world. Once we start
treating life as a thing of no account
to a to the point that a massive fish
kill receives no mention at all as it
did last two weeks ago. It's time to
course correct. Process and money
conserve life or destroy it. Let us yoke
both to the goodwill and well-being of
all. Whatever errors have brought us to
this point, we've ended up with
something almost nobody wants. Yes, your
job is often thankless, and you'll never
please everybody. But now is the time to
reach across the days and partner with a
passionate majority to forge community
collaboration, true bonds of affection,
and a good solution for Walton Lake.
Thank you for affording me the
opportunity to speak. Thank you,
James Cinton.
[Music]
She's never clean a fish.
So,
thank you for allowing this. I
appreciate it. I have a master's level
degree in ecology
and I've taught ecology at our local
university for many years. I've also
founded 10 organizations on three
continents and I also represented the
university on Mayor Ed Mallaloyy's go
green initiative committee. So I've got
a lot of stakes in the environment.
Draining Walton Lake means much more
than most people think because ecology
is hardly ever taken into account.
Certainly very little by the DNR very
sadly.
But we would destroy complex ecological
networks that support the life of the
leg. It'll take years. We just heard
actually the DNR stating it could take
15 to 20 years to restore a drained leg.
They said it um Doug Ret just read it
out. So
we would like to think about what is the
impact of this? Where are we now? Where
is mankind? Well, it turns out that we
are actually racing into the sixth major
planetary extinction event faster than
any previous extinction event. That's
pretty shocking. I don't know how many
of you know that that we're actually
going faster than when we wiped out the
dinosaurs. And that isn't something
that's small. You can read a lot of
scientific papers that will confirm
that. It's been around for 20 years now.
and recovery after that has taken
millions, tens of millions of years. And
by the way, um it turns out that where
where's humanity going to be with this
big extinction event? Probably we have
less than a century left and there'll be
no humans left. Okay? So if we carry on
like this, that's where we're going. And
it turns out that if we destroy the
lake, we will be enhancing
that extinction event quite
substantially. How can that be? It's
just some fish dying. What's that? Oh,
yes. Well, it turns out it is a very
healthy, resilient lake, as we heard.
And um many Iowa communities do not have
that good luck. Um and it it because of
the fact that Iowa has a lot of
agricultural stressors that get into the
water and so it's not so easy just to
recover a lake if you do destroy it. The
mature ecology of Walton Lake is the
basis for its native resilience.
because of complex ecological feedback
loops. And this will take years as we
heard.
It turns out that if we do destroy this,
it's going to be very different to
emptying a swimming pool and filling it
up again because
it means rebuilding a very complex
living system. That's why it takes 15 to
20 years.
Once our lake e ecosystem
has been so affected, we are going to
lose thousands of species, right?
Thousands of species, not to mention
tens of thousands of creatures that will
die and decay. Okay, that's what we'll
be doing. But we won't be able to fix it
so quickly because we have deteriorated
the support network, the ecological
support network on this planet to such
an extent that restoration is much worse
now than it was even 15 years ago. Okay?
So we're not just in the same age as we
were 15 years ago, never mind 100 years
ago. So we better understand how this
works. It's all to do with the lake food
web. I don't know how many of you have
ever studied the lake food web. It's not
just about fishes.
It's a complex environment.
And what you have is mutually supporting
diverse
life forms. We have a wide variety of
them. Birds, mammals, fish, amphibians,
invertebrates, including insects, algae,
bacteria, and fungi. All of these are
vital.
If we don't have them, we don't have
ecological balance. And if we don't have
that, human activities like walks in
nature, bird watching, kayaking, and
fishing are going to be affected.
An important example is aquatic insects,
which feed nearly the full range of
vertebrate and invertebrate predators
found in the lake. And it turns out that
their ecology, community structure,
predator prey interactions, their tritis
feeding, that's feeding on the stuff at
the bottom of the lake that's rotting,
their grazing, and the implications for
nutrient dynamics are all critical parts
of a living lake, which are almost never
taken into account when people drain the
lake.
Algae obviously are the primary
producers. They're the ones that produce
the food. Bacteria and fungus. James,
that's your 5 minutes. Can you wrap it
up with a couple sentences, please?
Yeah. So, what it amounts to is that if
the lake is drained, we will lose a lot
of species. There will be a lot more
cost than we thought, and it's going to
take many, many years to restore the
beauty and wonder of that lake.
So I would suggest that we look at other
options especially now that some have
emerged which appear to be less
expensive and I would suggest that we
take that route. Thank you
Ed Hip. Oh James, do you what w do you
live in by the way? One. Are you a lake
resident? No. Okay, great. Thank you. Go
ahead, Ed. Sorry.
Is this a wall or a desk?
My name is Ed Hip. I'm in the fourth
ward represented by the magnificent
Matthew Row. Thank you, Matthew.
I'm here because I would like to make a
proposal. It really dubtales on what Tom
Terrion was saying. Tom is one of the
most outstanding citizens in this town
and he doesn't feel incorporated into
the decision-making process of this city
council.
Sometimes
we want to focus on what we want, but
sometimes nature says, "I'm going to put
in front of you what you don't want so
that it's clear what you do want." I've
seen many things in this issue that I
don't want. And it starts with you,
Connie. Two weeks ago, I had to had to
be with my dear mayor saying, "I am
frustrated about the gap that I feel
between my me and my citizens."
I had to hear a citizen say last two
weeks ago, he didn't feel they didn't
feel safe in this town for other reasons
than this, but that was the issue. I
believe we're feeling the issue of
safety now, too. people feel here that
they're not being collaborated with by
their representatives.
We can set the bar really low. Take the
lawyer's advice that it's the bare legal
minimum that the city is responsible for
in terms of being in touch with the
citizens.
But that's not up to the standards of
Fairfield. Why would we ever go with
what's the bare legal minimum for
anything in this glorious town?
Why would we not want to be eager to
reach out as soon as something's being
considered here even at the smallest
tenderest little maybe we could do this?
Why not reach out and determine who are
the impacted citizens
and eagerly say we think maybe you might
not like this? We want to hear what you
say because you may have facts that we
don't know. I asked representatives to
go walk the bridge who had been telling
me one thing. They went and walked the
bridge and they came back telling me,
"Oh my god, there's stuff we don't know
that's going on out there. It's a
totally different deal. There's no
ambulances driving across that little
cart path."
And yet that was one of the cornerstone
issues here.
So I'm proposing that this city change
its deepest ethos. That this is not a
wall between you and us. That there is a
bridge between us. And that bridge would
be a fully chartered, fully empowered
office of some kind. Its sole job is to
be constantly looking and seeing what is
government wanting to do in this town
and seeing who would be impacted most
directly by it and reaching out to them.
There are apps for this. There are other
cities that have programs for this. I
believe Doug Reinhardt, you live in came
from a town, Fort Arthur, that has one
of these programs. Yeah. So, we can
start by asking you to check out with
them. What do they do to make sure that
this kind of thing where we're feeling
like it's us against you and you're
feeling like here's an angry mob here to
lynch us.
It doesn't have to happen that way, but
we'd have to be eagerly seeking out
opposite opinions to ours. So, I'm
calling it I'm changing the name. It's
the Citizens Impact Assessment and
Engagement
Office. Not just notify us, bring us in.
You got somebody like Tom Tyrion who
lives there and you don't try to get and
knows real estate and don't try to get
them in here to help in the very
beginning stages of the whole thing,
then we're going to end up uh
with this. So, thank you very much.
Thanks, Ed. Appreciate that. Uh, David
Renan.
[Music]
Hi. Uh, my name is David Renan. I'm a
very fifth board resident. I'm a
recreational fisherman. I enjoy fishing
all of our ponds and lakes here in
Fairfield. And, um, I would have to say
that Walton Lake is my favorite place to
fish.
I think it has the healthiest fishing
population in the city. Uh I've in
attending some of these city council
meetings, I've met fellow fishermen,
recreational fishermen, who uh one of
whom has said it has the best fishing
population in southeast Iowa, which is
something I think that we should be
proud of. Um I have a I I generally
kayak fish and so when I'm out on Walton
Lake, I'll pop the kayak in at the the
public parking and uh make my way to the
main lake underneath the bridge.
Uh, I have a fish finder which is a
depth finder and so I'm able to um check
the depths of the water in various areas
of the lake. I had a um a visual aid
that I submitted to um r loper at city
of fairfield.gov. I guess didn't make
it. Uh but it's just a map of the lake
and I can easily describe it. Um, so the
lake, if you want to think of the bridge
on the lake as going from southwest to
northeast, the the bridge cuts off the
lake and about 1/3 section and a 2/3
section, what I would call the main
lake. Uh, the 1/3 section is where the
public parking is. And that whole area
of the lake, the lake bed is at 11 ft.
Uh, 11 we actually have the uh Oh, is
that is that what you're talking about
there? Yeah. Yeah, that's it. Yep, we've
got it. So, yeah. So, it's okay. Great.
Thank you. Yep. So at that that
section's at 11 ft. And great, there it
is. And so when we get to the bridge,
the depth stays at 11 ft. And then
within about 15 ft of the bridge, it
starts to slope off into about 13 ft of
water. There was an area I have in the
the green where it's a one small hole
that goes down to just over 14 ft as I
as I noted, but I was all over that lake
and couldn't find anything else deeper
than 13 ft. It's remarkably flat when
you get to the bottom of the lake bed.
So, uh, what I want to bring to you
guys' attention is that if we do drain
the lake, there's going to be nothing
left. Even if we were only to drain it
to the 11 ft level, uh, somehow, which I
I would assume would be difficult
because you would need heavy equipment
on, I assume, the south and east portion
of the bridge in order to, um, you know,
put things together on that side. Uh so
even if you were to only drain it down
at the 11T level uh 2 ft of water I mean
I don't need to we don't have to talk
about dissolved oxygen to um understand
that July and August is not going to
support
fish you know the the trophy of fish
that we have in this lake surviving at 2
ft of water in the hottest months of
summer. So um I don't know what you're
going to do with this information. I was
really hoping to see the DNR report. I
guess unfortunately they couldn't be
here. Obviously, they're going to have a
much better chart than what I have here,
but I I was a bit surprised to find how
consistent the lake depths are uh in
terms of just being very flat uh once
you get into the deep part of the lakes.
So, um the other the other thing that
this brings up is and this has been
briefly discussed is the irrigation of
the golf course. If the lake is drained
and there's really nothing left or
substantially nothing left, it's going
to be a big drain on our on our public
water system. Um, I spoke to Ed Hip
asked him about the Fairill Golf and
Country Club, how they irrigate their
golf course. They use, if I'm
understanding correctly, reclaimed
sewage, sewer water that's been
filtered, so that doesn't come out of
the aquifer. And so what we're talking
about is, you know, 130,000 gallons of
water a day coming out of our public
water supply for months or longer uh
just to to water the golf course to keep
the golf course alive, which is going to
be a financial cost as well as a cost
ecologically. And so in addition to
ruining one of my favorite recreational
activities, you're going to, you know,
put a great burden on our water supply,
which um I'm not qualified to speak
about, but I just, you know, want to
just say just to sum up that this is my
favorite place to fish, and I'm sad to
hear that might be going away.
Thank you. Thank you,
Ed. Noise.
Yeah, my name is Ed Noise. I'm also in W
one but out of Waln Lake, so I know it
quite well. I go to there every morning
and look at it.
The biggest thing that happened was on
October the 14th and it was reported
that
staff looked into lowerc cost options
brought to the city by citizens
Cherion's offer. It's admitted that it
was lower cost than what was being
discussed which was the covert idea.
However, this option would not meet the
weight limit needed to meet the
requirements of the courses activities.
That was incorrect. It was more than
adequate to meet the needs of a golf
cart bridge.
So, the only thing that that makes any
sense is if you're confir if you're
looking at the covert idea, which is the
emergency vehicle analysis. The
emergency vehicle analysis is not
supported by anyone today. That analysis
was never valid. And yet it's what the
city council considered as extremely
important in their decision-making. I go
back I watched all the hearings. I saw
everything they talked about. So that
was the main reason why the culvert was
chosen because you could get emergency
vehicles completely unnecessary,
impractical and all of that.
Part of the problem with the uh the Dish
thing is for the emergency vehicle thing
and the covert is you have to destroy
the the the walkway getting to the
getting to the little bridge part. So if
you go with the golf car bridge, you're
only looking at two abundance. You're
not looking at destruction of all of the
wide sidewalks which are in great
condition. So one thing we did is we
filed a petition to the um
the DNR. We filed a petition to the DNR
to stop this and that's why they're not
draining the lake because they they're
looking at it again. Another big problem
was is and then it was admitted that the
depths of the lake was inaccurately
given by our city engineer. She admitted
it in the last public hearing. She even
offered her license. Well, that was a
big deal because even the DNR didn't
know that we were going to have to drain
the entire lake. So, now we know cuz we
have we have the actual readings of it.
We know exactly how much we're going to
have to drain. we're going to have to
drain the entire lake which will kill
all the fish. The DNR didn't know it.
The city council didn't know it and yet
these decisions were being made. The
other thing we obviously pointed out was
nobody knew of the impact it was going
to have on the golf course. It wasn't
even discussed until the last meeting.
Now we're talking about 3 million
gallons of water that needs to come out
of the aquifer. The aquifer is already
draining. They're already talking about
having to do another one. It's millions
and millions of dollars. that is the
water that we use for our public needs.
So that was a solution that was proposed
at the last meeting, but those costs
have not been factored in. That's a
significant cost that needs to be added
on to the 234,000
that the bid is currently at. And it
also doesn't discuss the cost of all of
the piping. Further, nobody discussed
the fact that it was going to forever
cut off the access for the fisherman. So
none of this was discussed or considered
at any point in the relevant
decisionmaking.
a big problem and that's the why the DNR
is holding off. They have a duty to
everyone including us, all the people
that live there etc. If you look at the
petition that was given made by the city
to get the permit
one of the questions that's asked
the addresses of adjoining property
owners leies etc whose property adjoins
the water body if more than can be
entered here please attach a
supplemental list. no response. In other
words, the DNR was not given the names
of anybody that lived there.
The reason why they asked for the names
is because if they're going to do
something egregious to the water, they
have to let the property owners know.
They have the right to to protest the
permit application. We never got those
notices. Obviously, we didn't get
anything from the city. And I have to
say this, we lost the Fairfield Ledger.
The ledger was one of our main news
sources. Right now we just have the
Southeast Iowa Union which is a three
city thing. So we bar anybody hardly
ever looks at it and you rarely get
anything about their bill or importance.
To this day there's been nothing about
this important matter. It's still not
ever in the paper. That shows you how
ineffectual the paper is. We also lost
the news reporting at the local radio
station. They don't do that anymore. And
we also lost the weekly reader. So we
don't have the traditional means of the
people saying so that you can forgive us
and forgive you for us not knowing. It's
a mutual forgiveness thing that we're
doing here right now. That's actually
what happened. Uh there was another
question that will this impact a lural
by a lake or repairarian land owner. It
was specifically said no. That's false.
Obviously, it affected all of its land
owners. Latoral meant adjoining property
owners. So, the application to the DNR
was was incorrectly uh applied for.
Um the fact that the city or the
engineer admitted that a lower cost
option had been submitted refused what
was said earlier about the bridge idea
was a higher cost. They admitted to it
in their own paperwork.
So even if it's let's assume it costs
more money to the bridge which it does.
Can you wrap up? Yes. Even if it does
the people offered we offered the city
money to have a fundraiser because we
care so much about this. We sent off a
memorandum of agreement agreement
offering to be open source. Everyone's
consiliatory. Everyone's working
together. We'll even put the money in
their trust because we want to help. We
want to help the city. We want to get
over this problem. No response. So, not
we care so much about this that we're
willing to actually raise money out of
our pockets that many people don't even
have. That's how much we care about
this.
So,
we have options. And I when I said it, I
said this is a vision. You look at it, a
vision of cooperation, love, and
celebration. We have an opportunity in
this community to do something that's
amazing. It's almost impossible, and
I've been told this by former city
council members, to get any changes ever
done at the city council level. Once
they're done, once they said they did
it, they're never going to stop. They'll
never be able to change. I don't believe
that. I don't believe that. I will never
believe that. I believe that we can
change if we put love in our hearts and
we care and we look at the animals and
the fish and everyone else. We can
change.
Thank you. Thank you.
Halo
and Hal if you can tell us where you
live. Yep. Or what you live in.
First word. I'm also a golfer.
which is another form of addiction. Um,
but um, I'm a member of the Walton Club.
Um,
I may be wrong about something. Uh,
Connie, can I ask a question?
How much of this covert idea is based on
the need to move emergency vehicles over
the causeway?
Well, I can't put a percentage on it. I
think the I think the thought was we
don't know what the future
holds
and so
from the city's standpoint I think they
regularly look at they try to be as
broad as possible to say what's possible
and should we consider that and I think
that's what the council did cuz they
don't know I mean I think we do know
what we do know we do have two golf
courses in in this town and we do know
that often on those golf courses have
struggled a little bit you know and so
can they stay viable the next 50 100
years we I don't know if anybody knows
that
so I think that's where the thought that
thought process came up and I you know
council you can chime in if you think
that's different so
my recollection is I I don't know where
that idea came from or who raised it
first I do not think it was the city
engineer But it might have been a
committee member who asked that
question. I don't I'm sure Terry you
might remember or there was also
discussion about not just emergency
vehicles but maintenance vehicles. I was
around when they were removing two old
cabins that were out in the first green
area or the first hole area. Yeah. They
were taken across that bridge backwards.
And if we'd have had a pickup it' have
been a heck of a lot easier. There's
accesses all over the place. Okay. So,
let's let's not go there. Okay. Yeah. Go
ahead. I'd like to say real quick
though. I just remember I remember that
being the bridge that we're putting in
is strong enough to hold emergency
vehicles. I don't think that was a
reason for that bridge. They were just
giving an example of how how sturdy or
how strong that bridge was going to be.
Great. Okay.
Thank you. Yep. Um, the reason I asked
is because um, and as Larry was just
pointing out, there's a lot of access
to that golf course from Walton Road and
Walton Lake Drive. And if you had to
move a vehicle across that causeway,
even if you fill in the bridge and put a
causeway, that vehicle is not going to
move nearly as fast or as safely as it
can move down Walton Drive and Walton
Lake Drive and Walton Road. So, it seems
to me that you really don't have a need
to support anything
heavier than a golf cart across that uh
area because of the the roads that are
so close there. I did turn in supporting
documents.
Is it possible to put that? I think
they're there.
Um,
thanks.
Good. So, right there, you know, if I
assume that council have all been out to
the course, but as you can see right
there, you've got the causeway is
parallel to Walton Road. any emergency
vehicles are going to come from Walton
Road from uh the west. They're going to
have access to any place on that golf
course
off of three access points off of Walton
Road. They wouldn't be crossing the
causeway. Um, and to get down to the
causeway from over in the parking area
and where the clubhouse is, you'd have
to rebuild that road, which would
probably cost you more than the causeway
is going to cost you. Um, so I'm here
basically to bring attention to really
the question in my mind is why are we
spending all this money on a causeway
when a bridge would be less expensive,
more practical, and do the job we need?
Well, Hal, I can only tell you what we
heard from our engineers and that was
the causeway was the least expensive of
the estimates that they got on all on
all those on the options.
So, and that's really what it came down
to.
And yes, we know that Ed and Tom have
come up with what they believe to be
uh lower costs.
Um,
even with those costs, again, I'm not an
engineer. I've been told that we might
need bigger abotments. Uh, we might
still have to we would still have to
lower the lake. Um, so you know, again,
I'm just paring what I've been told by
engineers, so I have to trust them.
They're the experts. I'm certainly not
in this area. So again, it came down to
cost and and that's really the issue is
it came down to cost on that decision.
So got it. Yeah. Got it. Yeah. Thank you
for your time. You are welcome.
I had about a minute left. Can I tell a
quick joke to lighten this up about this
situation, please? Uh, I think we should
wait. You tell me afterwards. Okay.
Okay. I But I really appreciate this
situation. It's about the lake. Yeah.
So, I think um I really appreciate
what everybody said tonight. I I I and I
and I think that um you know, we have
some pain points. There's no question.
These people up here have some pain
points. you all have some pain points
and uh you know some of these things
maybe we got to work on a little bit. So
um
I think Doug may have had a suggestion
and do you want to
propose that? So
um I called Connie earlier and asked her
I wanted to do this told her I wanted to
do this so she's going to give me time.
Um, so the summary of this is that we've
heard a lot of complaints about
transparency. We've heard a lot of
complaints about lack of communication,
complaints about lack of community
involvement and notification,
timeline, and manner in which decisions
are made. So, these are all pretty
important issues and we can see how
important it is because you're all here
several weeks in a row, several meetings
in a row to talk to us about it.
So, I think it's prudent upon the
council to address those in a very
direct fashion.
And I'm going to suggest that we put
together an ad hoc committee of two
council members. And I've already asked
one I would like to be on that
committee. And I already asked another
person if they would do it, but um two
council members who would meet with the
Walton uh lake community individuals
during the lifetime of this project and
work on those issues and look for
solutions and ways of implementing
change in regard to how the council and
the community interact and communicate.
So that would be my motion. Okay.
So
with that the I think the um well is
there that that the motion would be for
Doug and I would second the motion and
Mr. Row has also volunteered to be part
of this committee. Yeah. Um
and so there's a motion and a second. I
know this is all new to council members.
um this hasn't you know what has not
been talked about so prior you know this
just was an idea this afternoon and um
well it's an ad hoc committee that would
dissolve at the conclusion of this
project unless we see some value in
continuing it in some other fashion I
don't know it suggested something more
permanent that certainly could be on the
table but I think at least initially we
should start somewhere and that this
might be the first Yeah.
So, I'll uh open that up for discussion
for the council. So, just to understand,
Doug,
the property committee in July of last
year
Mhm. recommended and the Ways and Means
Committee, I believe, together approved
the uh option one, the culvert. Yes. And
move forward with reducing the level of
the lake, draining it. So my my
understanding is we would continue with
that process, but you would initiate
Well, I'm not suggesting anything about
the project. I'm just suggesting that we
have two council members form a
committee to meet with coun meet with
the public and talk about issues of
transparency and communication and the
way we make decisions. So the
recommendation of the proper committee
ways and means would remain. Yeah.
Mr. the points.
Oh, hang on, hang on, hang on.
The council has would make a have to
make a decision if they want to change
the path that they've already taken.
Well, you have to go.
I I think there needs to be there would
really need to be sit down and
additional problem solving because first
of all, and I'm not saying the council
is going to go here, but we know we have
a signed contract and get out of that
contract is significant amounts of
money. It's not wise for it's not wise
for this council to use taxpayers money
in that way. What if we
Well, I you know I I can't I can't
problem solve that right now. I think
that's a discussion that could be
brought here. I mean to to Doug and to
Matthew and if they felt that it was
worthy to bring it to council
then that could be discussed.
Okay. So, if if that's what people want
to do, uh bring a new proposal that
comes up to the same standards that the
city expects for other proposals we've
received for other bids like we've
already received from Dish. You meet all
those guidelines. You know, certainly
look at it. You save money. Well, that
we don't know that yet. That's why we're
going to do the proposal because we
don't know if it's going to save money
based on what we learned last year and
Paul and Elizabeth's not here but ways
and means the cheapest option was to put
in the U causeway
it was 140 Ed I'm not going to argue I'm
just telling you what we decided last
year it was $144,000 thereabouts correct
me if I'm wrong council I thought it was
$144,000
it was the cheapest option available to
the council at that time and considering
the fact that just this past year we had
$400,000 deficit to make up. Last year
it was $600,000 deficit we had to make
up. We were certainly key on looking for
the cheapest option available to us
and that was a big driving u issue. It
wasn't fishermen or kayaks or luring the
lake. It was a money
and and that might be you might think
that's wrong, but No, that's just what
happened. You know, it's not we're not
going to have a discussion now with
Doug. I just want him to explain what he
wanted and then we've got a motion on
the floor and a second on the floor and
I want any additional discussion whether
you want to move forward with these two
representatives
to discuss any further
um you know ideas messages with Yeah.
Melanie Melanie wants to say something.
Yeah. Any clarification? Okay. Thank
you.
Um because we have a contract with Dish
Construction that was signed. Um we've
had a pre-construction meeting. I have a
notice to proceed waiting on my desk. Um
I don't want to be in breach of contract
by not signing that notice to proceed. I
guess I need action from the council as
to whether I'm supposed to sign that or
not. Um so I would like that clarified
tonight. Thank you.
My original thought was work on
transparency, communication, decision-m
issues that the population here is
objecting to. Yes. It wasn't to tell the
council to set everything aside and come
forth with with another project. Okay.
That was my original intent. If the
council wants us
to uh the two of us to entertain a
proposal from the community that comes
up to the specs that the city normally
would um receive, that we can do that.
is the time. Okay. So,
council, do you want this these two
people to represent and do an ad hoc
committee during the project?
I mean, do you have questions or
discussion points about that and then
we'll take a vote? I understand it's an
ad hoc committee to be convened during
the project. Yeah. The project is
ongoing. Yeah. There's a contract on on
the on the engineers table to sign now.
She can sign it. Yeah. Okay, I'm fine.
Any other questions? Hard to deal with.
Come on. Goodness. So, if there's no
other discussion, call the RO.
Florenoid. Yes. Ro, yes. Gandandy, yes.
Two Hill, yes. Kess, yes. Okay. Thank
you. Thank you. Thank you, Doug, for
bringing that proposal. So, I'll let you
lead the way. Okay. With how you want to
proceed. Okay. We're going to move into
resolution, action items, and
ordinances. So, and if when you leave, I
just ask that you be quiet cuz we're
going to go on with our business
meeting. And if you have more discussion
to take it outside. Thank you. Um,
first action item is consideration of
authorization to proceed with Highway
One transfer of juris jurisdiction.
Oh boy.
Um
again consideration of authoriz
authorization to proceed with highway
one transfer of jurisdiction
action.
Can you speak to this? Which one? The
first one. Uh the highway one transfer.
This is what we talked about last year
or last year last meeting. Sorry, last
meeting.
Uh, yes. So,
um, can we can we take about a
two-minute break? Delivery clears out.
Okay. Is that okay? Yeah. All right.
Thank you. Two minute break. Two minute
break. Vehicles here.
our wounds. We're ready to go. We've
licked our wounds. We're ready to go.
Okay. We are back to our resolution
action ordinances. First action item was
consideration of authorization to
proceed proceed with Highway One
transfer of jurisdiction action.
Okay, here we go again. Now that we're
collected, let's this is the right of
way for the vast two partners
for their entry to their subdivision.
That is what this item is regarding to.
Yes, that they are going to transfer it
to the city and that we can do the
maintenance and then this is what we
talked about last at our last meeting.
That is correct with that entry into
feral gas as well. Yes. And that they'll
do the work there or they'll pay for it.
Anyway, yes. So, um is there a motion to
proceed with this? Move to approve.
Second. Uh moved by Kess, second by
Tuhill.
Any discussion?
Hearing
none, please call the role. Kess, yes.
Two Hill, yes. Row, yes. Gandandy, yes.
Floro, yes.
Okay. Next action item, consideration to
set public hearing on the matter of sale
of city assets on a wheel loader for
Monday, June 23rd, 2025 at 7 p.m. I'll
make the motion to set a public hearing
for June 23rd, 2025, 7 p.m. Moved by
Florine. Second. Second by Gandandy. Any
discussion? What's a wheel loader?
The big giant front wheel. What is it?
The It's a front end loader. Oh, a wheel
loader. Front end loader. Front end.
Okay. Kind of like motor graater. Same
thing. Never heard of a wheel before.
Yeah, that is what that is. Okay. Thank
you. That's what they said in Kansas.
Yeah. Okay. Any other questions? Please
call the RO. Florenoy. Yes. Gandandy.
Yes. Kess. Yes. Ro. Yes. Tuna. Yes.
Okay, at this time I'm going to open a
public hearing on the matter of the
proposed fiscal year 25 budget
amendment.
Um,
excuse me. Does anybody want to speak on
the budget amendments?
Going to go there. I have it printed
out.
The amendments
have to do with
Oh.
here revenues or revenues increased
uh received grant for lockers at the new
fire station increased franchise fees
grants received for Petra's Park Shade
units and Pleasant Plane Lake project we
received DOT reimbursements originally
expected in fiscal year 24 uh donation
for grant writing and increase to police
contract reimbursements. So those were
all our revenues that increased and our
expenditures increased as well. Grant
writers for the EPA grant application.
Uh projects reimbursed by grants at
Petrus Park, Pleasant Plain Lake,
downtown housing project, additional
expenses for legal council, unexpected
project at Walton Lake, TIF rebates, and
increase to property insurance premiums.
So those are all the change that have
been uh in this year's fiscal budget.
With that, I'll close the public hearing
and we will move on to the resolution
of consideration of the fiscal year 25
budget amendment.
Move to approve. Second.
Any discussion?
Hearing none, please call the role.
Keness, yes. Lauren, yes. Two Hill,
yes. Gandandy, yes. Ro, yes.
Ordinance 1262. This is the third and
final reading. Consideration of
alternative enforcement and procedures
and penalties for nuisance and housing
safety enforcement. This was um I'm
sorry I don't have the amounts up to
800. It was like 105 to 855 as I recall.
Is that correct? Does that sound right?
Yes. Okay. So that's what we're talking
about. I'll open a public hearing for
ordinance 1262.
Uh seeing
and hearing none, I'll close the public
hearing and council, do you want to
approve this for the third and final
reading? I made a motion we approve
ordinance 1262 for adopted by 126. Move
by Floyo second. Second by Tuhill. Any
discussion?
Hearing none, please call the role.
Florenoi, yes. Two Hill, yes. Kess, yes.
Ro, yes. Gandandy, yes.
Ordinance 1263, consideration of
amendment to chapters 9.76, 10.2, 24 and
11.08 grass and vegetation. This again
is the third and final reading. I'll
open a public hearing. Does anybody want
to speak to this particular?
Okay. Hearing seeing none and hearing
none, uh we'll move on to um council.
You want to pass this to the third and
final reading? No, we're adopting it.
Right. Excuse me. Yes. Adopt a motion to
adopt 63. Okay. Moved by Floreno.
Second. Second by Tuhill. Any
discussion? Yes. So I just note that in
the policy the word auspicious is still
used
rather than conspicuous.
I'm sorry. We have the word auspicious
in there. Yeah. You got to get that
deleted out of the policy. You know, I
was going to look for that. Well, maybe
it's an auspicious cuz I don't know.
Click on the policy
on the on 12623. I've given that um
bottom of this first page
conspicuous. Ah, you must have changed
it between this morning and Yes, we did.
Um last week was busy. All right, fine.
Y Okay, great. Good deal. Thank you.
Okay, it's hot. Uh the last two pages of
it is the uh door hanger that uh we did
get ordered last week. Um, and
included in it is a QR code. Again, I
know not everyone know knows how to use
a QR code or likes using a QR code, but
that will direct um people to a landing
page on the city's website that will
have all of those sections of code
listed out as well as a list of um
contractors that could do.
[Music]
Okay.
Okay. Okay. So, we have a first and a
second. Any other discussion?
Hearing none, please call the RO.
Floreno, yes. To Hill, yes. Ro, yes.
Gandandy, yes. Can Yes.
Ordinance 1264, consideration amendment
to chapter 7.04, solid waste collection.
I'll open the public hearing. Does
anybody want to speak to that one?
Hearing none, I'll close the public
hearing. And council, do you want to
adopt the third and final reading for
move to adop move to adopt ordinance
1264.
Moved by Gandandy. Second. Second by
Florenoi. I think. Sure. I think he got
in. Yep. Uh,
any other discussion? Please call the
role. Gandandy, yes. Can Yes. Till. Yes.
Ro, yes.
Ordinance 1265. This is the third and
final reading consideration of amendment
to 7.06 recycling. I'll open the public
hearing. Does anybody want to speak to
that? Hearing none. I'll close the
public hearing council. Third and final
reading. Move to adopt ordinance 1265.
Move by Gandandy. Second by Florenoi.
Any discussion?
Please call the role. Gandandy.
Florenoi. Yes. Kess. Yes. Ro. Yes. Till.
Yes. Okay. Uh the next ordinance uh is
the first reading consideration of sewer
fee amendments.
Um so with our other fees that we've
discussed over the last couple weeks, uh
majority of this is moving um moving the
sewer fees. Uh
the not the charges that get charged to
the citizens, but um some of our service
charges uh to in this case it's to
contractors that are dumping um waste,
such as if they're cleaning out
someone's septic tank and they're
hauling it to the wastewater treatment
plant. Um we also do some testing for
other cities um that um for their
inspections or their reporting to DNR.
Um and so we're moving it from the or
from the code section to a resolution
and uh so we are increasing the fees for
the lab testing a little bit. um adding
um a handling charge for shipping
um
and then
increasing then also the waste hauling
fee for those who are disposing. So um
increasing everything just slightly and
then um moving it to the resolution
form.
Okay.
And I will say that um the testing side
of things has become um a lot larger
part of the revenue for the wastewater
department um because they are a
certified grade four lab um with us
needing to do so much more for our own
plant. Um Sean said that he signed some
agreements with a couple of new cities
this year. Um last year it was about
$9,000 that they brought in from other
cities doing testing for them. So, um,
looking at I mean, every little bit of
revenue helps. Okay. Thank you. So, I'll
open the public hearing. Does anybody
want to speak to this new ordinance?
Seeing none, I'll close the public
hearing. Council, make a motion to move
the ordinance concerning sewer fee
amendments, propos fee schedule from the
first and second reading.
Second.
Okay. Move by for a second by Gandandy.
Um, any further discussion? Hearing
none, please call. Florenoy, yes.
Gandandy, yes. Tuho, yes. Keness, yes.
Ro, yes.
Okay. So, I really don't have anything
under the mayor's report other than, you
know, the opioid thing, what I was going
to bring up, and we've already done
that. Um, what's the total amount of
money that a quarter million? Oh, well
the last I knew I think they had around
210 220, but we have used about 20,000
of it. Yeah, not very much. I was going
to suggest that we approach the service
clubs and see if they can have programs
or
ideas to spend that money.
So there it's very specific how you can
spend them, but
I thought the Elks did for sure had a
drug uh program of some kind.
Some of these clubs can write u matching
grants. So if the mask from the
foundation, for example, the Murray
Foundation, if the mask could come from
there, then the club wouldn't have to
raise money and yeah, you could donate
your money and do something with it.
Well, Elizabeth Estie is really the one
is
got the knowledge for what that money
can be used for. So certainly um if if
there's drug awareness programs they
have and yeah bring bring it to the
table. Um we're meeting about once a
month. So, we'll meet tomorrow at 9:00
a.m. at the supervisor's meeting. And um
also I just you know um
we've had a lot of discussion tonight
and uh I just want to mention that you
know we are moving forward with our
project no different than what we were
before even though there might be some
discussions uh uh with a couple council
members and and the lake residents.
I think one thing that would be useful
for the po public to do the like Ed and
Tom uh take their proposals and put them
into a a proper format that the city
would even accept.
Get all those numbers together and
they're going to show to themselves that
it's going to be the same same cost or
higher.
That's the only and it's it's an
exercise.
It will be, you know, I think they're
going to find out. We still have to over
the lake level and all that stuff. Are
they going to change? But they need to I
know at least one of those people won't
do it though. They know it's not going
to change anything. So maybe not. I'm
guessing both of them, but I don't know
that.
They have to understand that we don't do
business by just making phone calls and
after the fact. Yeah. Yes, I know. So,
and uh I think it's pretty clear from
the engineers that um
lake would have to be lowered no matter
what. No matter what option we choose.
Yeah, unfortunately the information is
out there somehow. Some people believe
that we're going to kill the lake,
destroy the lake. I think it's the
opposite. I think if we could do a put
put a fast forward, you know, time lapse
10 years from now, I think people live
with the lake are going to probably say
thank you. I I don't mean to be
facitious, but I think it's going to be
an improvement in the lake. Well, when
the DNR use that number 20 years, my
understanding is that they want to do a
20-year plan. It would take 20 years to
reestablish the fish population, for
example. We're trying to saveology
around the edges of the lake which isn't
going to be destroyed anyway. Near as I
can tell, it'll be improved if we stop
erosion and yes, the lake is way too
shallow and it's going to if we don't do
something deeper than the pool. Exactly.
It's going to get less l shallow because
it's a far
you can't expect it to be very deep. And
the whole thing ecologically grew up
after 1931.
Everything that's there right now is
what DNR would have expertise in as far
as expecting those things will
eventually evolve around a living lake.
So that's maybe it does take 20 years to
get back to that. Maybe it took u 80
years to get where we are today right
now. But that lake is not Lake Jackson
in the middle of teet times I have elm
trees in my backyard. They look
beautiful. Yeah. But they're dying.
Yeah. They still and I they don't but
they're they're dying and might as we
just take them down. Yeah. Anyway, I
Yeah, I don't want to get into that too
deep. Um and and uh well, that's kind of
a weird thing to say, I guess, too deep,
but you know, the the point is that we
are moving forward at this point and um
better communication is always a good
thing and always a good thing to work
on. Um, people can sign up for alerts at
city hall. Um, and so I think we'll
we'll try to have a tutorial on that on
how they can do that. So, um, city
attorney report. Yeah. Um, I don't know
where to go first except I want to
introduce
to the council Holden Smith. If you want
to stand up, Holden. Holden is uh uh
just one week into being an intern at
the city attorney's office. He's a
thirdyear Iowa law school student. Uh he
has a wife and kids in Iowa City. Uh
maybe tell him a little bit about your
background where you from. You want to
come to the microphone so we can hear
you, please?
I didn't know I'd have to do a whole
resume presentation. Uh good evening.
Again, my name is Holden Smith. Uh, I'm
a rising 3L at the University of Iowa
College of Law. Uh, I'm from a town
called Manchester, uh, a little town
about 2 hours north of here. So, I've
lived in Iowa my whole life. Uh, prior
to coming to work for John, uh, I was a
social worker before going to law
school. Uh, I've done a lot of work in
law school with the ACLU and the public
teachers union. Um, as well as working
with a legal services group in the Quad
Cities. So,
It's very brief rundown of what I've
been up to. Thank you. I'm I'm very
excited to meet the members of the
council. I haven't done that yet. Thank
you.
Thank you, Holden. Uh Holden is
responsible for the abstract of title
12page outline that you were given which
uh you actually have materials related
to this last three council sessions
discussions about Walton Lake that that
they're very fine examples of what we
would use as exhibits if we have to go
through a DNR administrative hearing
which they seem to be inviting. uh or if
we have to go through district court,
which I don't think is necessary, but if
they don't get the result out of DNR
they want on a draw down permit, I don't
know where they'll stop. So, if they do,
I'm going to be back talking to you
about counter claims. Uh and Dish has a
right to raise that question too. Uh and
essentially there are at least two tors
committed as far as intentional
interference with contractual
relationships that we've committed to uh
six seven months ago and we did the bids
on 5 months ago. Uh and at this point uh
moving away from those positions. I mean
there's a way the council can do
anything it wants to but I'm going to
recommend that you don't. If you read
the last page and a half of the outline
that accompanied the abstract outline
that I did as far as my my review, um
it's going to encourage you to uh think
seriously about the legal posture that
you are all in. Uh and the legal posture
that they are not in. Uh they are not an
organized group. 25 years of Walton
subdivision. They've never had a
homeowners association. I don't think
maybe this is the most unifying thing
that's ever happened out there, but
there's 20 signers on some of this
stuff. That means that there's 15 that
aren't out of the households out there.
So, I don't think this is a unanimous
group. Uh, also, there is a situation
out there where if we get dragged
through a DNR administrative hearing and
they're not happy, we don't control
that. we'll have to deal with the
appellet level and we'll be in district
court. So when I say that I don't say
that as intending threats to them, but
we're we're going to get drawn into it
um just by the procedural things that
Mr. Noise has selected. and he's telling
us every meeting that he's not acting as
a lawyer, but it sure looks to me like
he's acting like a lawyer. And these
proceedings and going and having the DNR
uh halt us asking them to deny permits
and stuff like that, that looks like a
pleading to me. Uh so having said that,
I guess the thing is we're not there
yet. We're still proceeding. We haven't
breached the agreement with Dish at this
point. I'm I'm hopeful that your
conversations out there, maybe there's
some of that give and take on this. Uh I
think probably if you came back and
visited me in the middle of a meeting
like that, I'd become too abrasive uh
apologetically uh for that. I just think
that they have been misled. They have
been lied to about environmental
emergency. I think Mr. noise gave him
the impression that that is the Grand
Teton Lake, not a lake that was man-made
by us in a field. Uh, and it's going to
have some drawbacks as far as depth and
things like that, but it was also done
because it was a convenient location for
infrastructure for another purpose
besides golfing and fishing. Uh, and
it's great that it is golfing and
fishing and it continues. But the other
side of that is we still have DNR over
our shoulder and DNR u has more to say
about this than we ever can. So, um I'm
going to leave it at that, but hope that
you all read our outline and the history
of this as far as the way the abstract
title shows it because it shows six
generations of city council that had
nothing but good faith intentions
towards people living out there and
enjoying it. And that's still the case
today with 35 homeowners out there and
the lake still being a nice lake and
still having a nice future. I don't
think there's anybody in this room that
ever mouthed opinion that we would ever
put an end to the lake, destroy the lake
or do anything without oversight. And
that's been DNR and so forth. So,
they're not going to let us do an
environmental disaster. And our
engineers aren't going to let us do an
environmental disaster. And as far as I
can see, they've been throwing mud balls
at very capable engineers. They've been
throwing a lot of dispersions out there
about what DNR will or won't do. And I'm
still thinking that this ain't over
because my my guessing is DNR will
probably issue a draw down permit and
we'll be talking about this again in
another couple weeks because they'll be
mad that a draw down permit was granted
and we'll have to decide maybe in close
session whether we're going to involve
in a further step in litigation which I
don't think has been explained to these
folks at all by Mr. Noise. So, I'm
particularly perturbed with Ed right now
because he knows how this is supposed to
work and I don't think he's told him the
half of it. But, uh, beyond that, enough
about Walton Lake. Uh, there there are
things that Holden and I will be back
talking with you about over the course
of the summer as far as uh some of the
nuisances around town. Um,
we tried after u a discussion a couple
council meetings ago to track down a
house across the street from Matt that
is boarded up. U it's probably going to
be a demolition. Uh we thought we still
do have the heirs in the estate of Relle
Waters uh agreeable to relinquish their
interest. the property management
company group called Garden uh
Associates. Uh we finally got to talk to
somebody from the rental department and
they basically said they no longer
manage the property. This is a
development in the last month or so and
we hadn't had a response out of them for
the last couple of inquiries we made
before that. But if they don't manage
the property anymore, I'm going to find
a name of someone at the lender that had
the property manage company involved.
Uh, and we'll make the lender a part of
the lawsuit and we'll find out a named
individual to include for service of
process and we'll get rolling on that.
Again, the meantime, the city um I think
red tagged it for lawn mowing and it had
trees growing up around the foundation
and stuff. Uh so that trimming made
quite a bit of noticeable difference
down at that particular site. What
street is this on? Uh 701
South. Yeah. So it's Is it a blue house?
Yeah. It's It's noticeably improved just
by mowing the yard. But anyway, uh also
um we've uh got uh the house down over
on South D Street that belonged to Mr.
Npalio. Uh right now the uh the hole
created by that and so forth has been uh
filled and leveled. I think it's
actually seated. Uh Mr. Nalio is a ghost
right now, but we have to involve him in
a hearing to have the court um enter an
order that our reasonable costs of
cleanup were, I believe it was close to
$18,000 over there to take that down. We
had a bid here in front of council uh
weeks ago for $14,000.
Uh and then there were some extra
expenses including uh dumping fees and
hauling fees and disconnects and uh
capping of utilities and so forth. So
there were three of those. So all of
that came up to about $18,000. We're
going to try to have a judgment and
probably uh have the court allow us to
have a sheriff sale of that lot, which I
don't know if it'll bring $18,000 or
not, but it's a worthwhile lot. That's a
decent location. Might be an infill lot
for somebody like FEA to look at. Again,
um
I had a couple things that um we had
talked about at the last meeting and
since then they've gone forward. Uh the
city did receive a check for payment
from the uh Ed Felgger K9 fund for a
trained officer and a trained dog. That
was like $15,500.
During the course of the summer, there
will be another $35,000 which is
proposed right now and it's been talked
to at two two greater Jefferson County
Foundation meetings, their finance
committee and their annual full board
meeting about a match where city would
absorb 17,000 of that expense uh through
the Felgar fund usual course. That would
still leave at least that much again in
the failure fund for another dog and
another trained officer. The rest of the
money would come from a regular grant
from uh Greater Jefferson County
Foundation, which they now fully
understand that's the way it's being
asked. Uh they've got a copy of the gift
agreement by Ed Felgger when he was
alive that provided for challenge and
match fund proposals. So hopefully
that'll work out for us. will get all of
that 30 34 $35,000 paid uh just out of
that resource. Um other than that, um
I usually come in here with a couple of
things out of the De Mo register. U they
had three pages a Sunday ago about u uh
people that are at international
universities and are having their visas
swiped. Um,
I've got a call into Moira out at the
admissions office here on uh campus. I
don't think anything like that's visited
our town yet. So, uh, if there is
something like that, probably I'll have
a conversation with the chief police.
probably I have a conversation with
council with the next meeting about um
being careful about um treading lightly
on academic freedom and what the
immigration authorities seem to want to
do. Um I think probably enough said
about that. Other than that, the
sheriff's up in Northern Iowa, I have a
friend in the Debuke City Attorney's
Office that's a classmate. Uh the
sheriff uh I think his name is Pat over
at Deuke um announced a couple weeks ago
uh that um
that department doesn't have the
manpower or the resources to be a backup
for task force raids. Um and uh anyway
was immediately told that they would be
labeled a sanctuary city and they would
have federal funds withheld. uh that
hasn't happened yet that particular
Benedy raids in Debuke but uh I just
keep reading the paper decor still the
the I stand with Dan situation up there
that sheriff and the sheriff in the
neighboring county both are um under a I
guess I'm going to call it a a watch in
that area by uh the feds and uh the
sheriff at Dora is sued by the Iowa
attorney general for not uh having the
right attitude about uh warrantless
seizures and uh you know I think that's
probably something locally um our law
enforcement both the sheriff and the
police department u I think already have
a very careful approach towards uh
warrants and uh due process. So I'm
going to leave it at that. Um, beyond
that, um, there are, um, about a half a
dozen other nuisance homes. We'll just
try to bring you a report on two or
three of them a time as we go forward as
we through the summer. Um, and, uh, you
know, other than that, uh, I think
we'll probably there's a couple things
I'm going to have to work with city
administrator about. Uh um one is the
corner of Broadway and Court, the Penny
Lane building.
I don't know where we are on that
proposed inspection for $1,800.
I saw that agreement, but if have we
made an agreement on getting that
inspected? I I they will be here. I was
going to bring that up in the
report. However, why don't we leave it
at that then talk about it. Um, other
than that, um, the, uh, same person
that's part of what Doug's going to talk
about has some other properties around
town that are also going to end up in
magistrate court. So, we we'll leave
enough said about that. Um, other than
that,
as far as things that are going on that
uh are going to involve um
probably some oversight by Doug and
maybe another inspection. U we're still
waiting uh for some things from a lawyer
on the people with 36 dogs. This is the
u the month when they're supposed to
make a progress report to the court
about the cleanup of the yard is
basically layers of animal waste. Uh and
if we don't get a report in June, the
judge will be having us have a hearing
about that in July. And if they don't
have it all resolved by the end of July,
the court order is that the city should
go in and basically um
rehabilitate the yard. Um we have an
estimate in my file right now that
that's going to cost about $6,500
basically
probably skid load, scrape the ground,
new soil, chemicals to treat and relieve
the smell. Uh, and I don't think the
persons that are still there as far as
the owners of the remaining four animals
that can legally be there um are trying
very hard right now and their attorney
is avoiding me. So, uh, we'll have more
to say about that, but we've still got a
couple more weeks u to deal with as far
as whether they work on it in June and
do the report. So, I I know there's some
upset people down there on East Buchanan
yet, uh, that aren't holding barbecues
in their backyards and, you know, wish
there was more we could do sooner, but
we're going to follow the court uh, rule
on that and we're going to report back
to you. So, that's everything I want to
talk about. Okay, great. Thank you. Uh,
it doesn't look like there's any
committee and board reports. So, I did
want to say one thing about water and
sewer real quick. Yeah. Um we every
meeting we budget $1,800 for our meter
to send out water bills. So $1,800 every
meeting it shows up on the on the things
um because of the new uh online service
we have now. We've cut that to 900
starting this meeting and we should be
able to cut it even more after that. So
that's great. Yeah. So we'll save 18 u
21,600 a year as of right now on that
just because online
thanks for bringing that to our
attention. appreciate it.
City administrator report. I just wanted
to remind council that tomorrow at 100
p.m.
June 10th, 1 p.m. the
groundbreaking
ceremony for the construction of the
Sunrise Trail housing development will
occur. Where will it be? At the it it'll
be at the Little Achievers parking lot.
What did you say? A sunrise trail
probably look for the tent or the people
or something like that, right? Yeah. So,
I just wanted to remind council that and
yes, John is correct that the mayor and
I and Melanie and the fire chief and a
few others and the property owners of
5759 and 61 North Court, we did a walk
through the
the the judge had asked us to have
access to that building and have it
inspected.
So, I contacted an independent building
inspector from Iowa City and they will
be here on the 18th at 9:00 a.m. and we
have reached out to property owners and
we will let them do an evaluation and I
can provide that evaluation not only to
council, but I will provide that to the
judge. I'll I'll send it to I'll send it
to John and let them I I I don't think
that I need to be doing a a building
inspection report to any court system.
Three of you walk through it. What was
it like? He gives us a little idea. I I
I'd prefer to abate the opinion. No,
can't see anything. You would Well,
nobody's been in the building for a
while, so it's You know, looks like
What's the status of the market value
analysis? I and what I for that building
we have not gotten one. Are we supposed
to be moving forward with that? I
thought we were. We are. Yeah. We were
we were thinking about doing imminent
domain. We had to have that. Okay. Do
so.
Well, I can reach out to this building
inspector because I think it's all
together and see. Oh, maybe they can do
it for us. Okay. When they inspect the
building.
High three figures. High three figures
$800. I will reach out and have a
conversation. Okay. Good.
All right. With that, I'll take a motion
to adjurnn. So moved. Moved by Cle,
second by Cornoy. All those in favor say
I. All those post same sign. Meeting
adjourn. Thank you.