Title: City of Fairfield | Study Session & City Council 2.9.26
Date: 2026-02-10
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W6fEWkbepqk

All righty. We're going to call this study 
session to order. And it's a study session,  
so we don't have a roll call. We just start 
immediately with the agenda. We have two items for  
discussion on our agenda this evening. The first 
is Cading Properties, I believe, a presentation,  
but by Mr. Ed Malloy who is the executive director 
of Gro Fairfield my former mayor. Thank you Ed.  
Good evening council. So council tonight I gave 
you a couple of um couple items for this evening's  
presentation. One is the most recent uh concept 
drawing that I received from Kaden Properties that  
uh takes a look at that piece of property, 17 
acres on Gear Avenue between 18th and 12th and  
basically nicely fits in 30 buildings, 156 units. 
Um so I that was up up to this point that was a  
question in my mind where they were going to land, 
how many they were going to do. Um so this is  
really quite significant project what 
they envision for this. So yes, Victoria,  
uh this is Gear Avenue to the north up here 
and then you'll see um two streets that come  
in off of that and again these are private roads, 
internal roads and um those are all like forplexes  
and fiveplexes. [snorts] So if you look closely, 
you can see separation between the buildings and  
then there are numbers on each of the units. Uh 
and if you go down to this to the south phase  
of it to the backside, you'll see number 156. 
That's the last uh unit. Uh so anyway, that's  
what's proposed. And then the green that you see 
up there, if you've looked at that property, there  
is a um you know there is a drainage uh issue 
there that there obviously there's any specific  
engineering on that, but that will all be reserved 
for either a detention pond or a retention pond  
um to take care of the water on that site. 
So the next step um and in my presentations  
over the last six months we've talked about this 
there you know there is an expectation that there  
will be a developer agreement with the city of 
Fairfield where we would talk about incentives to  
uh get them committed to building uh this this 
development. Um the well I'm just trying to do  
a a calculation and I figure if they know 
that they're what they rent is somewhere  
between 850 and say 1,250 or 1300 square ft. 
So if you use an average of a,000 per unit  
uh and figure about um $200 per square foot in 
construction, it's a $31,200,000 investment.  
Um so they they have as we I think discussed 
in the past some of the some of the pieces of a  
um of an incentive based package for them comes in 
the form of land or fees or cash contributions. Uh  
certainly the tax abatement uh something that they 
will take advantage of uh cash incentives. So,  
wanted to have that discussion tonight 
about putting together a um a package for  
uh for consideration of an economic development 
agreement. Now, they are going to apply for  
workforce housing tax credits. And if they're 
successful in getting those tax credits, there's  
a for a a project this size, there's a million 
dollar cap on that. Um but al along with that or  
aside from aside with that would be uh some of the 
other possibilities of incentivizing them to uh  
to build here. So land um that the piece of land 
piece of property there is owned by Grow Fairfield  
and u we're currently having it appraised and that 
appraisal will probably come in at the end of this  
week. I suspect it's going to be somewhere in 
the 300 to $350,000 range in terms of uh its  
appraised value. Um and what what I would like to 
propose in terms of building the strongest city  
uh incentive package and you know to offer in this 
development agreement would be to consider doing  
a swap with us. essentially taking um conveying 
the land to the city, forgiving um loan that is  
right now on the um land purchase for the Sunrise 
Trail subdivision of $200,000 that I believe was  
a an investment out of local option sales tax. So 
essentially moving that in um the value it will be  
the $350,000 [snorts] appraised value for the land 
as something significant in terms of an incentive  
to the developer and uh then that that portion 
being a key cornerstone for the incentive package.  
Uh the next would be fees. We've discussed this 
before. We don't have significant building fees at  
this point in time. You may have them by the time 
they actually start construction depending on your  
activities over the next year, but either way, 
um, when they go to a community, they're paying,  
I'm going to say probably for something like 
this, probably as much as $2,000 a building um,  
in or in in fees or so. uh the fees could still 
very much be a part of that. Uh the tax abatement  
is I think already in place because we do have 
policy that would meet what their objectives are  
is to have a 10-year tax abatement in lie of you 
know asking for tiff for the infrastructure and  
then the other major piece of the package would 
be a cash incentive and that is something that  
um our organization will work through our 
foundation. So, we'll be working with uh some  
of our largest employers to put together hopefully 
three or $400,000 in a cash incentive um to uh to  
be a part of this as well. So, if with all of 
those in place, I think it would be close to a  
million dollars um in an incentive, which I think 
is an expectation and something that's reasonable  
for the amount of investment that's going to be 
made. Um again in particular because you know with  
the the infrastructure alone uh for all of the uh 
the streets and the underground work it's we know  
what it's what it's costing out in the Sunrise 
Trail subdivision well over a million dollars.  
And although these streets would not be built to 
the same standards, there was still probably a  
million plus investment in that's that's going in 
just in the infrastructure. So, that's the summary  
of of um what I wanted to discuss tonight, but I'm 
eager to hear your reactions and your questions.  
We have met with um city administrator and 
with the economic development committee,  
so they have uh seen this already, but 
would love to answer any questions you have.
What's your what's the timeline here that Great 
question. So the sooner we have a development  
agreement, the sooner they pull the trigger on 
everything that they need to do. They put the  
engineering the engineers to work. They you know 
start to plan for construction. The conversation  
we had a couple of months ago um when you know 
they announced that uh we would be their next  
project was we'd like to be moving dirt in the 
fall. So, in order for that to happen, they would  
um they would have to have kind of a solid 
commitment from us. If it languished a little  
longer and they waited until they knew whether 
they were getting uh tax credits or not, um then  
that that process would take you to September and 
I don't know whether they'd be able to get any  
work in this year. So I just I think over the next 
couple of months um if we had something in place  
that would give them the confidence to go forward 
and and to start the planning. Um so that's  
that's what we're that I think that's what we're 
looking at. I guess the other the other side of  
the question is if we don't do that, if we don't 
come up with something like that, [snorts] they're  
still interested in the community. Yes. Uh it's 
just going to take a different different timeline,  
a different path. Um, so I understand that the uh 
$350,000 land value uh city is basically swapping  
a $200,000 asset for $350,000, right? And then 
we're providing that to them. And I come up  
with about 300,000 imputed fees if it's 2,000 
per unit and it's 150 units, right? Something  
like that. And then three to 400,000 cash from 
Gfield Fairfoot Foundation. How how solid is  
that? I mean, how how confident are you that 
we can pull that off? I think it's uh yeah,  
I I'm basically taking it one step at a time. I 
have the major donor um already in place that has,  
you know, a major amount for matching. And I've 
had conversations with all the other uh you know,  
major employers as well. They know an ask is 
coming. I feel confident. I feel confident  
about it. So, uh, in order to trigger the, um, 
development agreement, what specifically do we  
need to do? What, what do you need to hear 
from the council in order to Well, I think  
if if these ideas sound plausible, then I think 
it would be the city attorney that would start to  
work on putting together the, you know, the actual 
proposal, what that would look like. I think there  
would probably be some negotiation. So it would be 
a draft of a proposal that present to them um and  
see what kind of feedback we get from them which 
is why the other thing is probably the sooner  
uh we do this the better. Also mention too I I uh 
also gave you one page from the 2026 Iowa Thriving  
Communities application which is something 
that we're going to apply for again this year.  
uh having missed it by just a point last year. 
And if you look at that financial support where  
in the application, you know, there are 15 points 
awarded for policies or examples within the city  
where you have used any of those uh elements. 
So you have waved fees or inind contributions,  
tiff or tax abatement, willingness to use LMI 
funds, local financial support, land including  
private se. So, we're talking about all of those 
areas that are the hallmarks for the designated  
thriving communities that they've already awarded 
in Iowa. So, this would be also very strong for  
our workforce housing texture. I mean, our 
um Iowa thriving communities application.
I know Tom, I'm going to put you on the spot a 
little bit. You're probably going to ask me what  
I'm thinking anyway, but go ahead. [laughter] I 
know that uh I believe I was on the ways and means  
committee or we had several discussions about the 
$200,000 loan the city made for the purchase of  
the land which is now the Sunrise Trail Division. 
I know there were several questions you had at  
that point. It was kind of a back and forth and 
the city finally made a decision to do so. So,  
I'm wondering how this possibility of a swap I'm 
I'm wondering the same thing actually. And this  
was your predecessor um who at the time wanted to 
have about 50 close session meetings about this.  
Um which [laughter] um I'm an open I'm an in the 
open kind of guy. Um and it it I I know we kept  
coming up with um roadblocks. It was it was going 
through um ERS and Cooney Mhm. Um back and forth a  
lot. Um that that we were able to do this. Uh and 
I I think we probably need to find out from them  
too if we switch this over if it's going to have 
any effect on what we did from I I want to hear  
from Eers and Cooney that we can do the land swap. 
And that's Sorry. I'm sorry. [laughter] Okay. Let  
me let me speak to that a minute. We've uh had a 
a phone conversation with one of three people that  
is probably going to team up on this at Aaylor's 
Jenna Sabroski. I'm expecting Jason Kamiski. And  
I'm also expecting uh um gosh Kristen Billingsley 
Cooper, one of our home county kids up there.  
She's not a kid anymore. But anyway, uh [clears 
throat] Jenna Sroski was only person was able to  
talk to to start with, but the format that was 
just uh outlined for you as far as the pieces of  
this development agreement proposal, um I ran 
it by uh Jenna. Uh she said that all of those  
things if you fit them in the appropriate parts 
of the Iowa code so that there is value exchanged  
u it'll work. Uh some of these things assume 
a lot. I mean we're assuming that if Ed says  
it will be a $350,000 appraisal that something 
like that will show up and be part of our package  
described to Ailers. uh Aaylor's has two or three 
different parts of the code uh that uh show how  
this will work as part of a development agreement. 
So it doesn't appear to be any kind of outright  
gift to anybody in the private sector. Uh long as 
there's a value exchange, uh this should work. uh  
the different parts of this that um need to 
take place, put them all into a development  
agreement. ARS has de done probably um at least 
10 development agreements for us on things that  
uh either were a specific development agreement 
for a funded project or were specific development  
agreements for TIFFs that the city has done. and 
they've all had elements like this in them. So,  
uh I think we'll be on good ground, but you 
know, we also have to see how things turn out  
as far as the the things that Ed has described. 
Uh I have every confidence that Ed can produce  
uh on this uh uh foundation uh with a match in 
it. Uh and also that that appraisal out there is  
in line with what's out there to be developed. Uh 
and uh we've seen uh other things out along that  
strip that u uh we were doing u that were popular 
to start with. As far as LMI, I don't think I'd  
characterize Kading as LMI necessarily, but they 
are going to be a nice substantial development  
in that area that fits and will probably be uh 
something that the neighbors welcome as compared  
to some light industrial development out in the 
field there. So, uh at least that's my my read  
on the neighborhood from people like Mr. Maguire 
that sometimes shows up if there's a a too much  
of a hint of industrialization. So, um that's my 
two cents worth on it. Tommy, yeah, I wanted to  
make sure we were we were good with them also. So, 
John suggested the phone call. Okay. All right.  
If that [clears throat] particularly if we were 
going to if they had a better way to design it,  
then we would take that punch, too. If that 
works, it's already way easier than it was  
last time. [laughter] Yeah. And again, you know, 
the way I I see, you know, being able, it really  
leverages both projects because it, you know, 
we still have several hundred,000 of electric  
and gas infrastructure to put in there. It helps 
to leverage the Sunrise Trail project to kind of  
keep that moving, get it fully um fully built 
out. And then also it I think it gives city the  
stronger package of incentives to really solidify 
the relationship with this developer. Okay. I I  
mean if if it if it goes like it's spelled out I 
and we have ER's [snorts] approval on it. I don't  
know. I I guess I wouldn't have any objection 
at all. So we know that it sounds great. So we  
know that Yes. So that we know that the loan requ 
was as the loan package we made for the Sunrise  
Trail Divi subdivision was going to be paid upon 
with the sale of the lots. Correct. Over a short  
short period of time. Well, no actually there was 
a I believe there was a installment due annually  
um and then they were going to pay it off sooner 
as the lot sold. Was the intention was $10,000 a  
lot? 10. [clears throat] Yes. Yep. So, as as each 
lot with a I I think there was a minimum. So,  
if a lot didn't sell, there was still 
a minimum payment. Okay. Um and then  
a $10,000 a lot on top of that. So, this is 
going to change that, right? Significantly.
We're not the city is not going to be paid 
back. Is that right? Correct. Correct. But  
then we'll recoup the finances from the sale 
of the lots in the new development. Correct.  
No, that would there would no there 
wouldn't be anything being paid back  
towards the city on that. I think the the 
value is the investment in $30 million in  
capital improvements. Improvements [clears 
throat] and we don't need to invest in the  
infrastructure of the road and things like that 
because they're [clears throat] doing it. Yes,  
absolutely. And and that's a big part of this. 
It just really is. That's that's why they are  
pursued so heavily. It's just it's so unique for 
development to come in and do a full project and  
not and again you're not getting the you know the 
exact standards for the streets themselves. Um  
you will with the I mean I think everything 
will be to code for water and sewer. Mhm.
Uh [clears throat] I I think I've seen 
this figure, but what's the approximate  
uh expected uh property tax revenue from this 
expected property tax? We haven't done that work  
yet. I mean, you could take the just roughly. I 
haven't done that number yet, but [laughter] Okay.  
All right. Well, so you know what percentage of 
that is is actually going to be what is the roll  
back going to be? Yeah. Yeah. got a few steps. 
Probably wouldn't take too long, but I don't  
have that number. And that won't be coming in for 
10 years, but Right. But, you know, it will come  
in in 10 years. Yeah. And in that period of time, 
there'll be 30 single family homes and hopefully  
we're into phase two or three on the Sunrise Trail 
subdivision, too. So, it's it's a it's a big it's  
a big splash. It's a big opportunity to make, 
you know, a big investment upfront at this time.
I mean, it ultimately is 156 units. That's 
significant in terms of adding to our housing  
stock. And the price range is going to be it's 
not LMI as John mentioned, but it's going to  
be work for they describe it as workforce housing 
because a lot of the communities that they're in,  
they really, you know, they're really surveying 
the, you know, the manufacturing companies and  
what they're paying. um their target is someone 
that's making $18 an hour and above. So it's it's  
market rate, but it's kind of workforce right 
now. They're at a dollar a square foot with  
which I think is competitive with this. So we're 
not in a position of course to make a decision as  
council at work at the study session, but you 
as I understand there's going to be perhaps an  
appraisal completed by this week. Yeah, I was told 
by the 15th I should have something. So maybe by  
the end of this week or early next and um I can 
certainly you know work with John to start to  
flesh out something that would be a draft and um 
and then we could come back. I think that I think  
that makes sense. Well, I think uh if we put on 
the agenda for the next council also a um letter  
of representation with the Aaylor's folks. Uh so 
we get that going also because you know I've out  
of 10 or 12 development agreements that I can 
describe for you, I've drafted two of them. Uh,  
and uh, everything else, no matter what, was uh, 
courtesy of people up at Aaylor's helping. Uh,  
and the two that I drafted were redone several 
times, including by, uh, attorneys on the other  
side. So, uh, I do not profess to be the public 
finance lawyer in the crowd there. ARS with a  
team uh will be what we want to rely on as far as 
everything passing muster, especially when they're  
going to probably be taking what we've done with 
them and showing it to other uh people uh that  
will be cadating side of the leveraging and they 
want it to be uh triple uh a type public finance  
backed also as far as the law firm looking at it. 
So we need aers in the mix is what I'm saying.  
Sure. If there are any other ideas, any other 
concepts for incentives that's this is a time to  
start discussing other ideas as well. Absolutely. 
I think that can we John go you're going ahead  
with the appraisal anyway and you're going to 
maybe meet with John perhaps put together some  
draft. The council's not making a decision to go 
forward so we're not really voting upon anything.  
But I think that's to me that makes sense and 
we ought to uh support moving in that direction  
without actually voting on anything. Does that 
make sense? Anyone else? Would it be appropriate  
to make a motion uh subject to the appraisal to 
give it a little bit more of a We're we're in  
study session. Well, no, not study session in in 
the in the regular session. Well, we're going to  
talk about it again when the economic development 
committee gives its report. Okay. Uh I don't know  
that um I don't know that we we should take a 
motion or need to make a motion at that point  
because I think that the next step is you're going 
to you're going forward with a appraisal anyway  
that doesn't require council approval. Thank 
you for the information and we're not approving  
or agreeing to any development agreement but the 
fact that may be some draft or something like that  
being worked on. Yeah. I mean, a general motion to 
permission for the council to go forward to draft  
a development agreement for consideration would be 
okay. That that sounds appropriate to me just to  
give the process a bit of a a stamp as we see it 
right now. So, we can consider that in the council  
meeting. All right. And council can speak to it. 
Great. Thank you very much. Thank you, Ed. We have  
five minutes for our next item. Fortunately, 
I believe this item is also going to be spoken  
about in the regular council meeting, but let's 
go ahead and get started with this if you will.  
Deborah Williamson is going to speak on proposals 
for fountain for a fountain and heritage alley arc  
arc. Thank you, Deborah. Good evening, Councilman. 
So, the uh water fountain, I'd like to simply  
table that for now. Um the uh the funding for it 
is uncertain and um and the location I think is  
still up for debate. And so that just leaves us 
with the Heritage Alley Arch. Um and do you all  
have a sketch in front of you of the of the arch? 
Yeah. So, it's um it's a standalone arch that goes  
into the the nodes on either side of the crosswalk 
on the um south end of that brick alley and  
um it's measurements are going to be sufficient 
for service vehicles to go through. It would will  
be made out of a a sturdy uh metal that's uh very 
similar to what our uh the look and feel of our  
park benches. It's kind of an oil rubbed bronze. 
Very pretty. Um and then the uh the lettering with  
the gold over a over a dark um backing. And so you 
would see as you're facing the alley, you would  
see the letters Heritage Alley. And as you're 
facing Central Park, you would see the letters  
Central Park. So, if we can just uh if you have 
any questions about it, I'd be happy to answer.
Council, any questions?
presume all the engineering everything is set to 
go. So we have the uh basic dimensions determined  
and the locates have been determined and the 
property owners impacted have also uh um verbally  
agreed to this. Um the the the next step if if 
if in the regular session you vote to approve,  
the next step would [clears throat] be for 
us to um create a more sophisticated design  
complete with the engineering specifications 
that could then be approved by the city from  
an engineering perspective. Um as a standalone 
it has to go, you know, so many feet deep and  
so on. And then once that second approval is is 
complete, then we would move on to fabricating it.
Sorry. Um [clears throat] there's one additional 
step that's going to have to take place. So  
um the street naming um system within the code. Um 
we don't have a naming system for our alleys. Um,  
so if this is going to be the official name 
of the street um that would give addresses  
um to anyone on that street. It it depends. Is 
this like a park? I mean, and I don't mean like  
air. Is this a park um or is it officially like a 
street heritage alley? So, um if it is something  
that's going to be giving somebody addresses, 
um we need to put it in our ordinance. Um,  
I suppose even though if it's um a more of a park 
along the lines, council needs to approve the name  
Heritage Alley because otherwise I mean someone 
we can just go around naming alleys anything we  
want. Um, and actually our sign ordinance doesn't 
allow people to put up signs naming things without  
council approval. So, um, and we would, so we 
would want to put have an ordinance go through  
officially accepting the name. What section we 
put it in depends on how we want to classify it,  
I guess, is what I'm trying to say. Do you see a 
benefit to naming it a street? To me, that seems  
like a lot of extra work. Yeah. And I I think I 
just need to look into it more as to whether it  
would fit better under the public property section 
or the street naming se and I'll just have to look  
in that section of the code. Okay. Um but um cuz 
I think if we put it as a street name then that's  
going to confuse I know there's people who have 
property off of that but they're going to be like  
a you know a Broadway B or something like that. 
So um I think we're better off putting it under a  
different section of the code but it's still going 
to have to go into the code. Yeah, I would agree.  
So the folks who have shops there already have an 
address. They just So, we don't need the street  
in order to have addresses. So, yeah, we're just 
going to need an ordinance or something saying,  
"Yep, we agree with the name Heritage Alley." So, 
thank you. We're going to stop that conclude that  
discussion, the study session. We're ready to 
start our council meeting. I think it's going  
to come up again in notes of property. So, uh, 
study sessions closed and we're going to begin  
our city council meeting. And let's see here. 
Rebecca, [snorts] would you first give a roll  
call? Thompson. Yes. Tuhill. Yes. Estie. Yes. 
Gandandy. Yes. Kess. Yes. Ferguson. Yes. Council,  
are there any changes or suggested 
changes to the consent agenda? Um,  
real quick on the regular agenda, I need to strike 
this resolution for tax abatement application for  
401 Weststone. We need to do some more um 
investigating into the contract. All right.  
Thank you. Any other changes or suggested 
changes to the consent agenda or agenda?
If not, I'll read the consent agenda. 
Approval of the minutes of the January 26,  
2026 council meeting. Approval of the January 
31st, 2026 payroll in the amount of $187,5258.
Acceptance of the library board minutes. 
Acceptance of the property committee  
minutes. Acceptance of the voluntary 
center committee minutes. Volunteer  
center committee minutes. Resolution of 
promotion in the wastewater department.  
Approver approval of liquor license for 
Walmart store number 985. Approval of  
ACA's payment to Iowa Department of 
Revenue in the amount of $21,831.76.
Approval of total claims in 
the amount of $332,268.71.
Claims in excess of or greater than $75,000 
are Krishnner Contracting Incorporated in  
the amount of $170,1844 cents. Move to approve 
consent agenda. Motion to approve the consent  
agenda by Kess. Second. Second by Ferguson. Any 
discussion? Uh couple things. the 17 170,000 is  
for the fire station and then the amount of um 
total claims at 332,9671 should actually be $333,  
uh8 uh68.71. There was a $100 typo on Verizon 
Wireless. It should have been 39826 and not 29826.
Thank you, Tom. Also, I note the 
property committee minutes. Uh Bob,  
you attached a a 20 a document to that. 
Is that part of the minutes as well?
Did I have Yeah. Uh let me let me see
there's like 20 30 pages. 
Oh, case for a downtown. Oh,  
yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So, uh I guess that 
did get appended to it. Okay. All right.
All right. Anything further? Any other discussion? 
If not, Rebecca, would you please call the role?  
Kess, yes. Ferguson, yes. Tuhill, yes. Gandandy, 
yes. Estie, yes. Thompson, yes. Thank you,  
council. That motion passes unanimously. 
Next item on our agenda is public forum and  
appearances. We have Chris Sorflaten speaking 
to source water program. Thank you, Chris.
Hello, good evening everyone. Uh so just to 
briefly summarize um the idea I [clears throat] so  
there I um so there's a program called the 
Iowa Source Water Protection Program and I  
spoke with Matthew D'vorak who's the director of 
that and he agreed that Fairfield would be a good  
candidate for the program where they could look 
into our wellwater supply and different ways to  
make our wells last sustainably indefinitely. 
So, in my research, I I noticed that Mount  
Pleasant just drilled a new well in 2023, and 
then I talked to uh the well drilling company,  
and they said those new wells cost about $3.5 
million. So, [clears throat] I thought the city  
would be interested in applying for this program. 
It's a free program and that's that's about it.  
Is there any commitment the city makes in plan for 
this program? Any dollar commitment or any promise  
we make? Nope. Uh we just need someone from the 
city to call or email Matthew D'vorak. You know  
something about Bob? Yes. Well, uh, Doug and I had 
a conversation about this and, uh, my impression  
from that conversation is that we are already, uh, 
in connection with this program. Uh, so maybe Doug  
could help us out understand how we're utilizing 
that already. So everything that the city does is  
heavily regulated by the DNR and the uh again the 
email communications that we have is with their  
geologists and the the DNR is divided as you 
know into multiple different departments. They  
have fish and wildlife um biologists. They have 
geologists. They have um all of these different  
they have all of these different divisions and 
they regulate our we have to give them reports  
and their monitoring. Our Jordan wells and 
any sort of all of our water equality all of  
those things are regulated by them. And so if 
there's recommendations that we need to make,  
they will communicate with us and then we follow 
their lead. That's how all that works. Is that  
helpful at all? Yes. It sounds like that we're 
sort of in this program, source water program  
already. Is that you suggesting? I don't know. 
There's something additional we have to do. it we  
yeah [clears throat] we we we're talking with them 
and they'll make those recommendations and and  
Chris has actually done some of the research that 
that we already have talked about internally and  
adding on to those things but doing I Melanie has 
sent out some of the data reports that we've we've  
talked about and we we sent it to to Bob that that 
we've already looked at some of these things and  
the communication between the replenishment of 
the aquifers and the the conservation items that  
we already do. Yes. But then there are other 
things that the city can do proactively in the  
future such as passing regulations and ordinances 
of, you know, low water usage of toilets and and  
uh faucets and what have you that that we can 
implement to help conserve water so that we're  
not using nearly as much. So, we do do a lot of 
those things already and and we continue to work  
on that and the water superintendent has come in 
and talked to us about it and some of the things  
that that we'll be doing in the near future. But 
again, Walton Lake is another one. The other thing  
that people are confused about is we're on the 
Jordan aquifer rather than surface water which we  
used to be. And so those are again all regulated 
and they let us know if we're doing something that  
we're not supposed to. Is this something that 
we need to apply for or are we doing it? I that  
I don't know. I don't know that we've applied 
for this particular individual. We'll look into  
it and I think that we've reached out and talked 
to them already, but I don't know that we're in  
the application process. Looks like they have 
There are three phases. They do an assessment,  
help us develop a source water protection plan, 
and then the implementation of that plan. I mean,  
if it's free and if we aren't already doing 
it, I don't I [clears throat] think I'd like  
a little more. I mean, it says aquifer investigate 
aquifer recharge options. Now, the Jordan aquifer,  
if I write, goes from southwest Minnesota 
into Missouri. So, I mean, this isn't like a  
little pool of water underneath Fairfield that 
we're using. This is across the entire state,  
eastern side of the state of Iowa. I don't know 
what I don't I want to know what aquafer recharge  
options means. Um, that's I mean, that's something 
that's, you know, um I mean, we're not capable of  
doing. Is this something is this something that 
is worth reviewing more closely by a committee?  
Which committee would this? I'm 
looking I'm suggest suggesting  
environmental infranchise. Don't think so.
I maybe that the benefits we get I don't know. We 
don't know. I don't know Chris. Maybe the benefits  
of this program we're already receiving. Maybe 
we're not. But it look sounds to me just listening  
that we might want to do a little bit more looking 
study to determine whether or not it's of some  
value to us. Yeah. I'd be happy to join committee. 
Um, just real quick, in my conversation with  
Matthew D'vorak, he mentioned that one reason we 
haven't been seeing a lot of research coming out  
of geology is because it's kind of, he called it 
a dying field. There's less students enrolling.  
There's less PhDs. There's very little research 
coming out of geology. So, [clears throat] I I  
have my own I have a lot of my own ideas. I've 
done my own math. And the the idea is that you  
have real super slow flow going through that 
confining layer and there's new terminology  
coming out from other regions where they call 
it a a semiconing layer or a partially confining  
layer or maybe there's cracks going through that 
confining layer that can recharge the aquifer. And  
uh according to my calculations, there's about a 
billion gallons a year going through the confining  
layer cuz it's it's such it's a 30 mile radius. So 
you have 1 * 10 1 * 10 -10 ft per second of flow  
according to data from the '90s. [snorts] And then 
over 1,400 square miles that amounts to a billion  
gallons a year. So [clears throat] obviously 
these are not precise. These are kind of ballpark  
figures, but the source water protection program 
has geologists and people on hand that can examine  
it more carefully and get more interest in geology 
because this is a problem that's statewide and  
Midwestwide. This is a huge, you know, worldwide 
water crisis kind of issue. And [clears throat] um  
so so I would suggest that perhaps we move this 
to or I as council member I make a motion that  
we move this for further review to our environment 
and franchise committee. Maybe and you you'll get  
notice of the meeting. Perhaps you could show up 
and talk more about it. Yeah. That's Yeah. Second.  
There's a motion and a second to prefer this issue 
consideration of the source water program to the  
uh environment and franchise committee for review 
and perhaps recommendation or comment from them  
to the council. There's a motion and a second. Any 
discussion? Any further discussion? Becca, if you  
call the role, please. Gandandy, yes. Ferguson, 
yes. Thompson, yes. Estie, yes. Tuhill, yes. Kess,  
yes. Let's make sure we have Steve Reigger uh 
from the water department there too. When we  
did the deep well out uh behind uh John Cook's uh 
farmhouse on Pleasant Plane Road, that's been 15  
20 years ago now. But we did have uh concerns 
about the deep well we had was just uh below  
the spillway dam out at Walton. Uh, and that's 
still there. Uh, and it's still u a capable well,  
but u the one that was put in out at the cook 
site um uh was intended to be um sufficient for a  
century. Uh and I know we had DNR down looking at 
both. I think we had u sort of the negative vibes  
on the one south of the spillway at the same time 
that the one out in the field at the cook farm was  
um supposed to be everything we needed and it 
was a much deeper well and much more uh water  
production but um I'm sure that there's more that 
Steve knows about it and my understanding is DNR  
checks it uh as far as the water uh circumstances 
as far as its productivity every month. So I don't  
Do you know something to that effect? Uh Chris? 
No, I just mostly looked at Well 7 because that  
was the one at risk of dipping into the tier 2 
warning stage. And I'd also like to just kind  
of point out like look, Mount Pleasant just had 
to drill a new well. Do we want to be like Mount  
Pleasant? you know, can we preemptively do things 
so that we can avoid being in a Mount Pleasant  
situation? Um, I think it's a great idea. I 
mean, so, so let's see. Row, Est, and Tuhill  
are members of that environmental franchise 
committee. So, I'm sure you'll take those  
steps necessary to have that meeting and have the 
discussion. We look forward to hearing from you.
Thank you. Thank you, Chris. Chris's not here. 
your names be called mine. So [laughter] I  
don't think I'm terrible. Now, now we move on to 
resolutions, action items, and ordinances. First  
action item is consideration of authorization to 
purchase a pickup truck. And we have Calvin Todd.  
Yes, sir. How you doing, Calvin? I'm good. How is 
council doing this evening? Good. All right. So,  
uh, what we've got there, I think you guys 
have a memo in your packet there, too.  
It's a half ton pickup truck to go to our parks 
department. Right now, we currently, our newest  
truck that we have is a 2011 and then we go down 
to a 2008. Uh this will be a half ton pickup truck  
that we'll still be able to kind of pull trailers 
behind and use for our maintenance department.  
This is also a item that has been budgeted for. 
it's in our budget, but with our financial policy,  
we've re reached that threshold where I get 
to come and talk to you all and get official  
permission to purchase this. So, um, we did get 
three different bids. We went to three different  
dealerships, told them what we were looking 
for. Uh, got a couple different brands, too,  
between Ford and GMC. So, uh, the one that I'm 
proposing that we move ahead with purchase is the  
one here with Vesselers. Uh it's a half ton F-150 
came in with the best price in my opinion. So So  
in looking at the in looking at the uh data sheet 
you you attached to the resolution it show there's  
some handwritten numbers at the end uh page two of 
three page three where it says it's written F-150  
Super Cab. Yep. And then it has a number invoice 
4709872 then handwritten below that's 47598US 3600  
to arrive at 43998 I think that's 60 or 00 I'm 
not sure could you I'm just trying to understand  
that could you maybe speak to that a bit what does 
that yeah mean so we get uh a little like they've  
obviously take some money off there. I think we 
got a little bit of a discount from them. I don't  
know where the discount comes from, but and and 
why it's on there, but the number is 43,998. So,  
a government discount. Well, it could be, but a 
lot of dealerships now, what we found is not even  
really doing that a lot anymore. And to be honest 
with you, one of the dealerships we talked to,  
the government discount wasn't even really a 
discount. It ended up being more than what the  
truck just was, which doesn't make sense to me, 
but that, you know, that was kind of the way it  
went. I I can find out why we got the discount 
on there, but I wasn't really asking too many  
questions. That in it's it's due to your strong 
negotiating skills. That's what I thought. That's  
exactly [laughter] what I thought. Right. 
Yeah. So, and it comes under budget. I mean,  
you budgeted,000 and so Yep. Yep. So, we got 40 
in our parks and then an extra 12 that was uh  
would be coming from loss. So, a majority of this 
will just come out of our budget and you know,  
obviously we'll probably put a uh um a toolbox in 
the bed of it, but they'll you know, we're still  
quite under budget on it. Of course, we're not 
paying sales tax. Nope. You don't pay sales tax  
on cars. You pay use tax to the treasur's office. 
We're not paying that. We're not exempt from that,  
are we? I don't. We might be. It's 5%. I don't 
recall us paying that. Okay. It's just probably  
it's government exemption, I guess. I'm drawing 
a blank. I don't remember. I usually put G on  
the title. Yep. Okay. [laughter] Request. Just 
one last question from for me. Is this a good  
vehicle? I mean, I know there's some some trucks 
are I appreciate you doing the work and getting  
the bid. Some trucks are recalled. Is this 
This is This is the most popular truck in the  
entire world. Yeah. particular one. I'm a Ford guy 
myself, so I'm going to be a little partial to it,  
but [clears throat] um no, it's it's it's I mean, 
it's going to be a brand new pickup truck, so um  
you know, it'll take probably about 8 weeks for it 
to come in. Uh but you see it it it's I don't know  
if you've seen Steve Render's truck that he drives 
around, it probably be the exact same as that.  
I move to approve authorization to purchase 
a pickup truck. Second. There's a motion  
and a second. Any further discussion? I 
just want to point out too that this was  
on his budget request two years ago and 
and we removed it due to restraints. So,  
he's been holding out a while for this. 
So, we're persistent. [laughter] Yeah.  
Yeah. There no further discussion. Rebecca, could 
you call the role, please? Estie. Yes. Gandandy,  
yes. Kess, yes. Tuh Hill, yes. Thompson, yes. 
Ferguson, yes. Thank you, council. Thank you,  
Alvin. Motion passes unanimously. Next item. Next 
action item is consideration of authorization to  
apply for an AARP community challenge grant 
for the renovation of the public restrooms.
All right. So, the public restrooms, 
we begin. Um, our contact at Pathfinder  
suggested this [clears throat] mini grant for 
the public restrooms. The ap challenge grant is  
uh for public spaces and the um the the limit 
for this particular grant, the challenge grant  
is 15,000. And so we're wanting to apply for this 
and use it towards the public bathrooms. Um not  
on the inside, but on the outside where the 
landscaping and the um the [clears throat] um  
walkable path for the seniors and and benches 
and and the things like that that would go  
outside the public restrooms. There's no match. 
There's no application fee. It just needs to be  
um applied for by the city. The due date on the 
application is uh March 4th and they need and then  
we would receive uh can't remember what month 
we would we would receive the notice. Deborah,  
you'd mentioned 15,000 in the uh uh copy here. 
It says 25,000 is up to 25,000 or is it 15,000?
This grant could get up to 25,000. So 
there's a 50,000. So I think the there  
were three categories of the challenge 
grant or of the AERP. There was um
I can't remember the three categories, but in in 
really studying it, the one that fits best that  
we're most likely to be approved for is the public 
grant, which is a limit of 15,000. Great. So just  
by reducing the scope of the outer um of the 
hardscape, we're able to meet that 15,000 limit.
And I don't have a design to show you. 
We did start meeting um Terry Baker and  
um Ray Ward and and Mara Brader. We we've 
sort of gotten together and talked about  
um two things. how we could qualify for 
this grant and and what what would we use  
the money for and how how would it be used to 
make the um the heartscape and the landscape  
around the public restrooms uh very uh 
user friendly for our aging population.  
So, some of the things are uh like a picnic 
table like what we have in Central Park  
um with a a stable umbrella um walkable path to 
that table from the um from the parking lot. So,  
wheel it's wheelchair accessible um what do 
they call them? raised beds for interaction  
for not only the um the volunteers to come 
see our seniors are volunteers as well. This  
is something they look for in the application um 
but also the plantings uh for an engaging sensory  
experience. And so there would be some plants 
that have a scent and some plants that have uh  
our pollinators. And so there's a lot of thought 
going into this to to make it really suitable for  
our aging population. And it helps them have a 
place to rest. It helps them with socialization  
because there's just going to be a lot of beauty 
right there just outside the public bathrooms. So,  
if you're waiting on someone inside or if you're 
pausing there to have a lunch break, you know,  
because you're right near some restaurants, 
then it it could be a really nice spot.
And it would be independent from the 
big tear down that we're anticipating  
of [clears throat] the public restrooms 
because it would be just west of that.  
So they're be able to u be under uh design 
and construction at the different timelines.
So what is needed from us at this point just to 
approve um applying for it. I'll make a motion  
that we give the go ahead for who's in charge of 
applying for it. I would fill out the application  
and then the city um signs it. Okay. Okay. Or or 
I show it to the city. I I've actually started  
the application so it's something that can be 
viewed online. It's a motion. There's a motion  
to authorize the application. Second. And by 
Ferguson, second by Kess. Any further discussion?  
If not, Rebecca, you please call the role. 
Ferguson. Yes. Kess. Yes. Thompson. Yes. Tuhill.  
Yes. Estie. Yes. Gandandy. Yes. Thank you. That 
passes unanimously. Thank [laughter] you, Deborah.  
Next item is resolution consideration of 
authorization of Ustep US application for  
Maine and Burlington improvements. Council. Um 
so the Ustep application is um the traffic signal  
grant application through the district engineers 
office uh property committee I think is the  
one that talked about it. I I think that was the 
committee that was um talking about this economic  
development. Economic development. Okay. All 
right. Um and uh so on the attachment the not the  
resolution but the other attachment um there is 
a letter to the district engineer um summarizing  
kind of the overall situation. Um we have uh last 
fall we applied for TIP which is a safety grant um  
and were awarded those funds um for the pedestrian 
improvements related to Maine and Burlington. And  
so when we combine the signal improvements with 
the pedestrian improvements um without anything  
else related to downtown two-way streets, we're 
looking at $950,000 um project. Um as we get into  
um fine-tuning the downtown two-way streets, that 
number might go down. There might be some overlap  
in um engineering or contingency, but this is 
where we're this is where we're going to head  
into the budget and this application with um and 
then on the next at the top of the next page is  
uh the proposed funding sources. And uh so we 
have the TIP funds of the 212,000 that we've  
um were notified that we received back in 
December. We're applying for the $200,000  
of USEP funds. So 200,000 is the maximum that 
we're eligible for. Um the um 500,000 of city  
lost. This is the uh streets portion of lost, 
not the community betterment portion. Um in this  
capital improvements plan, we were planning on 
the fiscal year that we're working on the budget,  
we were planning on $500,000 for this project 
already. Um, and so really the only thing that  
uh that I'll be bringing to Ways and Means would 
be an additional $50,000, not 50, yeah, $50,000  
of the remaining sidewalk funds um to close the 
gap um for the main and Burlington improvements.  
Um this is what I'm going to be sending to um the 
district district engineer saying, "Hey, we have  
most of the funds available for this project. We 
need your Ustep funds in order to complete it."  
Um I'm not asking for the sidewalk contribution 
uh commitment at this time. Um I'll bring that  
forward later later with the uh ways and means 
discussion. Um but I wanted to show you the  
whole picture. Um, and again, the est these are 
preliminary estimates. We haven't even finalized  
the design. Um, and so there's, you know, there's 
a high contingency amount in all of this. Um,  
but that's what we're looking at for the main and 
Burlington improvements. Um, further along in the  
application, if we go 1 2 3 4 pages, Jason, um, 
there's a written description of what the overall  
improvements to the intersection include. Um, 
the safety or the ped the safety improvements  
or the pedestrian improvements include adding 
the crosswalks to the minor approaches. Um,  
so this would be on the north and east sides 
adding the curb extensions um or nodes. Um,  
but these wouldn't be landscaped nodes. These 
would be ones that could have um some like a  
semi might be able to drive over it. Um, and then 
uh um new pedestrian signals. Those are again all  
part of the T-IP um application. Um and then what 
we're working on for the traffic signals then is  
um larger lenses um with better re reflectivity 
um LED lights um replacing the signal the poles  
themselves and the bases uh they are in desperate 
need of being replaced. That's kind of the reason  
um why this in addition to the safety issues um 
the poles very badly need replaced. Um we are also  
going to um put in a a base as well as the conduit 
um in preparation of the two-way streets. So even  
if that decision is not made right away, um that 
we're not going to be tearing up anything in order  
to make that conversion. Um, and then also we're 
going to have the um getting new controls for the  
um for the signals are going to allow us to 
again go to the two-way streets. Um make any  
modifications to that intersection if we would 
go to um um um protected left turn. Um any  
modifications that we would make once we do the 
two-way street conversion. um that we would have  
the appropriate um um our our current cabinet and 
our current controls don't have that capability.  
We would have to replace them. So, we would, you 
know, we would build that all in there. Also,  
having a good battery backup on those controls 
because right now when signals go down, um we have  
a little bit of time where there's no signals. 
So all that stuff is going to be um replaced um  
giving us you know a good 40 year life 40 50 year 
life on these um on this intersection. Um so what  
I'm looking for today then is the approval to um 
submit the application to the district engineer  
for the $200,000 of the Ustep funds. Can I ask a 
question Jason? Can we go to page 11 on um it's  
the itemized breakdown of cost. At the bottom of 
that there's an asterk that says you step eligible  
and it says 500,000. [clears throat] Um so those 
are the so um there is $500,000 of eligible cost  
but the program only awards up to $200,000. 
Gotcha. Um, so thanks for if the district is  
wants to give us more than $200,000, we would have 
more than $200,000 worth of eligible costs. Uh,  
and these nodes would not have flowers in them, 
even though this photo or the the Yeah. graphic  
uh that was just uh a little extra or Yeah, that 
one um it was from the 2015 visioning and included  
um some streetscape all the way along Burlington. 
Um so particularly the southwest corner that is  
shown right in that picture. Um DOT is not going 
to allow any landscaping on that corner because of  
that's the one they're most concerned with as far 
as running over it, the southwest one in order to  
make sure that um you semis can still um meet that 
turning radius. So that would just be concrete.  
Yeah. Um it look more like maybe the ones at um 
at Mount Pleasant. So, it would still have a curb  
um that like a car or even a a pickup truck is 
going to feel, but a semi can make the turn if  
they need to. It'll be like what's around the the 
roundabout. Yeah. Like an apron. The apron. Yeah.  
I would move to approve the authorization of the 
Ustep application. There's a motion to approve.  
Second. Second. Motion by SD. Second by Kess. 
Question. What's the time frame once we submit  
the application? Um, so they there they say about 
2 months um for the district to review this. So  
they take applications year round. Um I'm hoping 
around that time we also have the authoriz or we  
have the formal agreement for the safety funds. 
Um and then you know we'll be getting really  
close to the beginning of the uh new fiscal year 
and we can um you start moving forward on formal  
design of the entire project. So um once we get 
that formal agreement on the TIP I I I think the  
timing should work out pretty good but um it'll be 
a few more few more months before we even get the  
TIP funding agreement in place. Um the TIP funds 
won't become available until July anyway. So,  
I would guess that the USEP funds won't be in our 
um we won't be able to get reimbured for anything  
until July anyway, even if they do tell us 
next month. You know, they the money won't  
actually be available until July. I see any 
further discussion council. If not, Rebecca,  
you please call the role. Estie, yes. Kess, yes. 
Gandandy, yes. Ferguson, [clears throat] yes.  
Thompson. Yes. Two Hill. Yes. Thank you, council. 
The motion passes unanimously. Thank you,  
Melanie. Next item is resolution consideration of 
tax abatement application for 304 East Washington.
Move to approve. Second. Motion by Kess. Second 
by Tuhill. Any discussion? Council. Not. Rebecca,  
you please call the role. Kess. Yes. Tuhill. 
Yes. Thompson. Yes. Gandandy? Yes. Ferguson?  
Yes. SD. Yes. Thank you, council. That 
motion passes unanimously. Next item is  
the mayor's report. And of course, the mayor is 
not she's out of pocket this meeting, but she did  
uh make or proposes three appointments to 
the public access TV board. Those suggested  
appointments or recommended appointments of 
Mindy McAdams, Richard Lint, and Amy Develin  
to the public access TV board. You need a motion. 
Do you need a motion to approve? Motion to approve  
by Kess. Second. Second by Second by Tuhill. Any 
any discussion, council? Just one motion for all  
three. Sometimes we do. Okay. Because it's the 
same board. Okay. So, any further discussion?  
Let's go ahead and call roll, please. Kess, yes. 
Toohill, yes. Estie, yes. Gandandy, yes. Thompson,  
yes. Ferguson, yes. And I think the our city 
administrator is going to speak to this as well,  
but as part of the mayor's report, I want 
to note that um the rural housing readiness  
assessment 2.0 program is well underway. Doug 
is going to speak to it as well. Um, we had,  
I believe, 19 students from Iowa State University 
visit Fairfield this last Friday along with three  
of their instructors. They were here for the most 
of the day. They spent it with Eloy, our executive  
director of Gro Fairfield, and Rachel Hillier, 
our operations manager, and several members of  
the RHR 2.0 committee, which the mayor appointed 
a couple of months ago. I was I was among them.  
Uh they were hit there from the morning 10:30 
or so at the um green building supply building.  
Very nicely done. Thank you Aaron um Hersburg. Uh 
and also they visited and toured throughout the  
city. They're going to be coming back uh next 
week I believe week from week from today. Week  
from today and spending another half day they 
say half day from they're asking asking asking  
for five hours. So they're half day and we're 
gonna be visiting different parts of the city.  
These students are and uh [clears throat] they're 
architects, some of them landscape architects,  
interior designers, and one I believe community 
or urban development student. So, they're going  
to be visiting the different parts of our city and 
putting together something called a pattern book  
um based upon their interaction with members 
of the community including council and they're  
going to submit that to their instructors. the 
instructors are going to come up with some model  
book, I believe, and something like that. And 
then ultimately, we're going to have proposals on  
how we can what we can take from these young minds 
and to help improve our and and uh um take further  
steps toward improving our housing stock here in 
Fairfield. So, we're very excited about this and  
the city is playing a major role. We're one of 
the co-licants along with Grow Fairfield. So,  
I think we're going to get some good things out 
of it. So, they'll be around. You may see them.  
They may reach [snorts] out to council members 
to talk with you and maybe spend some time with  
you in the next couple weeks. So, expect that, 
expect that contact. Um, so I just want to make  
sure you're aware of 2.0. You may have something 
to add, Doug, when you come to your report. Okay.
Uh, now we go to committee and board reports. 
And so, Okay. First, do we have anything else?  
What is it? Oh, yeah. I'm sorry. Thank you. Thank 
you. City attorney report. Thank you, John. Sorry.  
Fair enough. That's fine, Paul. [snorts] Um, 
[clears throat] I've got two or three things.  
Um, one of them is a nuisance situation up on 
North B Street. You had a presentation from  
um, a community member here, Sue Berky, back in 
uh, December. Um the understanding was that she  
had some things to work out with the owner 
of the property who had originally uh after  
we cited her into magistrate court on infractions 
concerning the condition of the property up there,  
she was prepared to give the property to the city. 
uh Sue Berkkey uh approached her about purchasing  
the site [clears throat] and doing a makeover of 
the site. Uh we had a presentation from Sue Berky  
that showed a timeline during the 2026 year for 
a pretty substantial makeover, $65 to $90,000 of  
makeover on the property site. Um, I I learned 
courtesy of uh the attorneys for Miss Bryant,  
uh, that would be Vanessa Willin and 
u Shane Zissman uh for uh Sue Berkey's  
side that they have managed to work out an 
agreement between themselves uh for uh a  
closing. uh there was an impairment to that with 
a creditor's lean that has now been settled. So  
uh we had left it with them that if they could get 
this closing accomplished, they should get back to  
us at one of our January meetings. Uh that wasn't 
possible, but now they have settled that lean. So,  
uh, my understanding is I will be sent a a set 
of the closing papers to show that it's now,  
uh, transacted, uh, and, uh, transferred to Sue 
Berky and her son Luke. uh at which point uh I  
will present that information to the judge uh with 
a request that they be added as parties defendant  
in our case. At which point after they uh show the 
court what their proposal is and what the city has  
uh considered allowing them to do uh the court 
will uh allow Miss uh Bryant to step out of the  
role of defendant with the understanding 
that there is going to be at least 60-day  
uh repeated compliance reviews on Miss Berky 
uh and her son Luke as far as the progress  
they make on the makeover. Uh the judge uh if u he 
doesn't think they're doing what they said they do  
uh has the ability under the uh civil fraction 
that has this thing in court. That civil  
infraction process would allow the court to um 
do anything from telling them to demolish it to  
uh you know do this by a certain date or um expect 
some sanctions from the court. Uh I think they're  
sincere in doing what they intend [snorts] to do. 
We were shown in the presentation in December that  
uh it is possible for them to produce a 
nicel looking uh project. Um so at this point  
u that's the way I'm going to proceed. Uh assuming 
no one on the council has a problem with me u  
explaining to the court that we're going to extend 
this thing out over a timeline that's consistent  
with what we heard here in December. Um if uh that 
falls apart in some way, uh I will be the first  
one to do a report to the court. Um the other side 
of that is as they make progress and accomplish  
things. Uh I'm sure that the attorney representing 
them will help them make reports as far as wanting  
to show that they are complying as uh well 
as possible. So I'll I'll update you on this  
u as we go forward. Uh I'm not looking for a great 
deal of visible progress to be made. Um probably  
for another couple months, but then there will 
be something. So um as I say, we'll have reports.  
We'll share them with the council, but we'll also 
be doing it with the court and trusting that they  
mean what they say as far as what they showed us. 
Um there's a couple of things that uh are going  
to be uh going on um with um my office uh and 
our chief of police. Uh we're going to have an  
uh informational session uh and meet with a group 
called the Indivisibles. I think I got that right,  
didn't I? And anyway, we've provided a letter 
u uh of explanation that was sent around to the  
uh uh city officials here about what our policies 
and uh procedures are uh regarding uh if ICE comes  
to visit our community. Uh and uh it occurred 
to me after I read something in the Sunday paper  
uh that I know a person uh who was in the paper 
this Sunday in a good story about something that  
had nothing to do with policing and everything to 
do with the way immigration is supposed to work.  
uh and uh my late friend Jim Pearson, he and his 
partner Desandis over at his private law office  
for 30, 40 years. Uh they were the place to go 
as far as immigration, visa, uh naturalization  
questions and so forth. We have another private 
attorney in town right now and Amanda Searchy  
Ledger out at the Fossken firm that's doing some 
of that work. We've got two or three immigration  
attorneys on campus. But what occurred to me was 
that um I I remembered a conversation Jim Pearson  
and I had had about how long it takes to do some 
things in the private practice such as adopting a  
child. And we uh Jim compared the adopting of the 
child to the experience with naturalization. And  
uh for those of you that uh u have been around a 
couple maybe that was in the process of adoption,  
um you have to go through things that the 
Department of Human Services requires of you  
as far as the administrative u hoops uh as far as 
whether you're appropriate, home studies, things  
like that. And you probably spend a year or more 
just getting administratively ready for filing.  
And then you go through things that the district 
court requires. Then eventually uh down the road  
maybe u uh if the district court calendar uh works 
well and you're not uh swamped with other stuff  
that gets in the way of the judge, uh maybe a a 
year more into it. Uh you have a celebration when  
the uh uh adoption decree is entered. Uh and so 2 
or 3 years of the experience in family law court  
uh is sounds like a long time, but believe me, the 
families that accomplish it are very happy about  
it. The uh Sunday Register was talking about one 
of our residents, and I know [snorts] uh that uh  
the path to naturalization for her uh began a long 
time ago, and she's been in town between 10 and  
15 years. Um I don't know if any of you know uh 
Sonia Carminado that name ring a bell. Um anyway,  
Sonia was sworn sworn in after taking the oppation 
they had in the state rotunda. [snorts] Uh a  
short while ago. Uh the governor was there, the 
secretary of state. Uh there were um you know  
accolades thrown out as far as the fact that 
these folks were patient and uh what I recall  
about Jim's comparing the uh uh experience to the 
adoption process and how slow that can seem is  
uh sometimes getting off of the process u on your 
naturalization. The first two or three years are  
just a test of your patience. And some people go 
through five or ten years before they get through  
the naturalization process. Uh some people step 
away from it out of frustration and then go back.  
Others, you know, if they stick to it, maybe 
they're going to get done in uh two or three  
years. Nobody gets done quickly, though. Uh, and 
uh, here in town um, I've had the good fortune in  
the past of being a local barress and occasionally 
somebody would direct uh, one of the u what I call  
men in suits but it's the u administrative um, 
uh, homeland security group that is immigration  
that are u the, the people that sit at desks, 
help make determinations steer things into case  
files that end up in front of administrative 
immigration judges uh and uh do the work that  
uh is always going on behind the scenes, but 
takes a lot longer than people imagine. Uh Jim was  
putting figures out uh 5 10 years ago that they 
were 5,000 judges short. Uh I've heard it's more  
like 6,000 short now. uh they're spending over 
a hundred billion dollars on uh the ICE policing  
program and equipping and personnel that are more 
police and militaristic than administrative desk  
work. Uh and so I don't know if they're going to 
add any judges to this situation, but that holds  
people up a lot. So someone like Sonia that's been 
out there patiently going through the hoops and  
finally got sworn in u I congratulator for her 
patience. Uh and it's worth that uh when the men  
in suits show up uh and they have a package of 
paper and they're looking to find a particular  
attorney. Uh it can't be Jim Pearson anymore. 
We don't have Jim, but I know I've had a couple  
of packages for people that did immigration work 
that I forwarded to attorneys that left our bar  
membership here and went to a different state. Uh 
the immigration service is national, so they don't  
care where the attorney representing a candidate 
for naturalization lives. So uh once in a while  
I see that that is an entirely different uh stream 
of activity uh that's going in uh with immigration  
and with homeland security but it happens 
every day. So uh we welcome more of that and  
uh it would be great to see uh that happening on 
a stepped up basis. Um, as far as our uh uh local  
experience otherwise, which I would expect we're 
going to be talking about in front of uh the group  
called the Indivisibles about our letter about our 
policies towards a general visit by ICE if there  
was to be a raid. Uh our policies are that we uh 
we will assist if things are being done by the  
book and that means uh valid uh [snorts] judicial 
warrant that means a valid if it's an immigration  
judge that signed the paperwork uh that it's gone 
through the hoops under the federal rules but it's  
a formal warrant uh or the state of Iowa our our 
level of judges uh at all three levels have the  
capacity of issuing a warrant but that warrant 
would be something would be known to any of the  
uh legal community and to our law enforcement 
officers. So that's a policy we have uh and u  
it is part of the uh policy letter that we sent 
out as far as uh things that we would always  
expect to be looking for as far as the assurance 
that this is only proceeding uh with that kind of  
u u a formal uh warrant as the starting point. uh 
that also needs to be followed up on as far as the  
fact that the warrant will then be uh accompanied 
by a due process uh proceeding after that uh and  
that there won't be any surprises that u impair 
the ability to do the due process uh uh hearing.  
uh we don't want our uh uh efforts here as far as 
keeping track of the warrant and the process being  
appropriate to then be shortcircuited by somebody 
waking up in Louisiana uh and trying to figure out  
how to get a hold of their lawyer in Fairfield. 
Uh but uh that I don't think will uh be the case.  
um that we did have uh some other uh questions 
submitted to us to be answered in writing,  
but I expect that u Joel and I will probably uh 
have an opportunity sometime in the next few days  
to sit and just talk about this informally uh as 
far as the whatifs. Uh and um our position on this  
is to try to have the city as neutral as possible 
as long as things are being done by the book and  
to recognize that there's a side of this that 
can work uh mostly um off of a desktop and move a  
person on to the next part of the process. So like 
Sonia, they can be sworn in a state rotunda if we  
want. Uh but the other side of it is um if there 
are things that look like they're abusive process,  
uh ignoring due process, uh improper notices, 
no warrants, things like that, uh our policy,  
uh spelled out in our written policies is we 
won't go there. uh or if there's something being  
um uh proposed or processed where there are uh 
actual breaking and enterings, um abductions,  
things that are being reported like that. Our 
policy will be to have our citizens let us know  
that's going on. Uh our policy on the city side is 
to assure that um the law is being followed. Thank  
you, John. So that's enough on where we'll be as 
far as the indivisibles, I think. But uh that that  
is something that will be posted as far as the 
timing and so forth. Thank you, John. All right,  
so our next item is committee and board reports. 
Two committee reports, the economic development  
committee and the personnel committee. So we'll 
start with the economic development committee.  
The economic development committee met this past 
Wednesday and we had a a robust attendance. There  
are three items on the agenda. First was the 
consideration of a proposed Fairfield Public Art  
application submitted by the city of Fairfield 
Public Art Commission. Council will recall at  
our last council meeting, Terry Baker uh as a 
member of the public art commission, which is a  
commission um created by the mayor uh as proposed 
the council with a proposed public art application  
and the matter is referred to the economic 
development committee for review. We we discussed  
it with Terry this last Wednesday and uh without 
a recommendation to the council. Our suggestion to  
her was to um prepare a document record of the 
committee. Uh the committee was formed by the  
mayor's create was created by the mayor I believe 
in 2025 and but we need we'd ask for a record  
um their organizational minutes to be filed with 
the city and any minutes of any meetings that  
they may have had since the time of its creation. 
We don't have those yet. She's working on those  
I believe. And when we or our our comment our 
suggestion to Terry is that when we have those  
minutes on file then we could uh more carefully 
consider the public art application a proposed  
public art application that she submitted. So 
um that's where it stands where we be waiting  
for additional information or additional filings 
that the committee that the council can review  
regarding [cough and clears throat] that request. 
Second item for consideration at that meeting was  
on leveraging the value of Fairfield's membership 
in the intelligent community forum ICF for short.  
I know Bob Ferguson has been a prime driver of 
that application and Bob was speaking to us about  
the value of the membership. The city has invested 
some funds in the ICF and there there there's  
value to be gained from that membership including 
a number of things that Bob spoke about at the  
meeting. I'd like to have Bob if you could rather 
than me summarize it since he's here to take a  
moment to tell us about what what we talked about 
at the uh economic development committee meeting  
last Wednesday. Great. Thank you Paul. Um so the 
prime value of immediate value of our membership  
with ICF is a series of it's called community 
accelerator courses. There are six courses three  
modules each and they are absolutely fabulous 
and I did ask the uh uh one of the founders of  
ICF who's never been asked this before. this was 
in their mind something that you know economic  
development people would be interested in people 
who are kind of into the into the details. As I  
went through that course, my feeling was that 
every single citizen I could possibly in Vagel  
to get them to go through that course, we would 
have a very elevated level of discussion in  
the city about what the possibilities are for 
development because it's basically a series of  
case studies of what has been done in cities 
near our size, larger cities that has really  
allowed them to rocket forward from an economic 
development standpoint based on what they call the  
triple helix the a consortium of interest of city 
and education and business and case after case  
after case is presented that shows how those three 
entities creatively you know work together so that  
uh I have that posted I have a new Facebook page 
uh for my city council activity and those courses  
are are are uh are posted there. But I and I 
asked I was I'm sensitive about the IP. So I  
asked Robert Bell, okay, you know, you said a 
few people. I want like hundreds of people. Uh  
how can we do that? So he's going to write kind 
of an agreement, an understanding that this is  
now open to the citizens of Fairfield and at some 
appropriate point I will make the recommendation  
that we put those the uh the link to that site on 
our city website. Thank you Bob. So there isn't  
any recommendation from the committee to the 
council at this point other than Bob's update  
and and we're looking forward to the the further 
further further review from him as time passes.  
Thank you Bob. Sure. The third item we spoke about 
at the meeting was regarding Kading and the Kading  
initiatives. And so the Ed spoke about that at 
our study session. And at this point I think  
he covered all the points that we covered at the 
meeting itself. What's remaining I believe after  
our conversation then and our conversation this 
evening is perhaps there might be a motion to  
uh to to show support for Grove Fairfield to 
move forward with well we know they're going  
to complete their evaluation or their appraisal 
but to show support and give instruction to our  
city attorney to begin the process of drafting a 
proposed development agreement. We're not agreeing  
to any a development agreement, not right now, 
but we want to give perhaps show support that  
we'd like to move in that direction. That's where 
we are right now. There isn't anything more to add  
to what has I don't believe that we spoke about 
uh just earlier this evening. So, if there is  
a motion or someone would like to make a motion, 
this is the time. I'll make a motion that the city  
uh support the process, express their willingness 
to continue to support the process that Growfield  
Fairfield is going through. And if we need to 
add anything to that as motion by Ferguson.
So you understand it. What? Go ahead. No, I Terry 
got it. [laughter] Okay. Second by second by Kess.  
So as I understand the motion is to um um the 
city is uh expressing support um u for um Grow  
Fairfield moving forward, but more importantly for 
our city attorney to begin the process of drafting  
a proposed proposed development agreement. So it's 
clear there the record. All right. Okay. Anything  
further council? Any further discussion? 
All right. Rebecca, if you call the role,  
who actually seconded? I thought that a tie. 
Okay. Sorry. I'm sorry about that. Ferguson,  
yes. Kess, yes. Tuh Hill, yes. Gandandy, 
yes. Thompson, yes. Estie, yes. Thank you,  
councel. The motion passed unanimously. All 
righty. And now we move on to our administrator  
and department reports. Personnel committee. 
Sorry. Thank you. We'll go on with our personnel  
committee report. Thank you, Elizabeth. Yep. 
Jump ahead. So, the personnel committee met  
today. We had a request from Dave Thomas's 
estate to pay out his acred sick leave. Um,  
right now our current policies only allow for 
that payout of up to 50% I think in 45 days,  
right? Yeah. I think it's capped at 45 days and 
50% of that if the individual gives us written  
notice of retirement and then actually retires. 
Um so our current policies don't support paying  
out that sick leave. Um so we discussed three 
different options. Um number one of course was  
just to deny the request. Number two was to kind 
of make an exception to our current policies  
and number three was to maybe add a policy for 
employees who are employed with the city who pass  
while they're working for the city. We couldn't 
agree on a recommendation to council and so we  
thought that we would bring it to council to see 
what um everyone feels in terms of if you have any  
guidance for the personnel committee. So it goes 
back to the personnel committee or um you know
what you guys would like to do. I think that 
um there is certainly some precedent out there.  
other counties um and communities have 
policies that allow for um certain payment  
of acured sick leave to employees who pass away 
while they're still working for the city. So, I  
think that that might be something that we should 
consider adding. It doesn't happen frequently.  
and certainly unusual and um given the fact that 
the chief would have been entitled to that payout  
had he retired um I would advocate for that but 
again we couldn't really um come up with a one  
recommendation [clears throat] to council so was 
the question um what is the functional difference  
to the city from someone formally retiring and 
then being due the full payment and someone dying.  
Uh, in my mind, I'd have a hard time finding a 
distinction there that that is meaningful in terms  
of what the city's obligation might be. So I I 
would just ask what was the sense of the committee  
in terms of kind of the humanity and equity of 
the situation? Well, I mean I think that we were  
just looking at um the words themselves and how to 
define them. So obviously there was um you know he  
didn't retire, he didn't give us written notice, 
which is what our policy says. I think that there  
is um I think that equity and compassion maybe 
dictate that we could add this policy and it  
would I mean as opposed to creating an exception 
to the policy which I think is more of a slippery  
slope if we just create a policy that allows for 
and it doesn't have to [clears throat] mirror our  
retirement policy exactly if we want to give a 
lesser percentage or what but that's what that's  
what I think Yeah, that that would make much 
more sense than a uh just an exception. You know,  
if this will come up at some point or the other, 
uh not frequent. We asked John at the meeting  
whether in his experience he'd ever had this 
come up and he said I couldn't think of it,  
but then I got back to the office and I had 
three examples. What happened? What happened  
to those three examples? Well, one of them uh we 
had an employee u that was working down at the  
uh wastewater plant, Larry Hansaw, a few years ago 
and a barrel um apparently had some chemical or  
something left in the base and the barrel blew 
up and killed it. U and Larry had a a worker's  
comp claim and he had a private trial attorney 
pursue that. I believe he basically insisted on  
payment of all of these things. Um, let's see. 
Is this going down the road? You bet. [snorts]
Okay. Um, that situation was u I think treated as 
an exception for litigation. Uh but there was a a  
payout basically of the all of the benefits that 
Mr. Hansaw had accred were part of workers comp  
settlement. Um we had another situation where we 
had a um basically the end of an employment over  
at the library. Uh we had a severance agreement 
not notification. Um, I did send the uh city  
administrator and the committee members a copy of 
the way that worked out and part of it has some  
non-disclosure provisions. So, I'm not going to 
talk about the whole of the severance settlement,  
but part of the severance settlement was um an 
agreement to pay out under this formula we have  
in our personnel policy on uh acred sick leave. 
And we actually in that situation we did make  
an exception and we paid actually a pr-rated 
uh share of the acred sick leave for 16 years  
uh earned uh over the 20-year rule before 
it's ordinarily payable. Uh and that was  
part of a settlement [snorts] uh ending in a 
severance that was negotiated with a labor law  
firm up in De Moine. uh and uh everything ended 
amicably without a lawsuit. Um other than that  
um uh our situation with Dave um isn't like 
anything else. Uh, as far as Chief Thomas,  
u it's still it's one of those situations I'm 
prone to agree with Elizabeth that it um maybe the  
best solution would be to um add a little extra 
defining language as far as death circumstances  
u in our policy. [snorts] Uh the other uh 
exception um my understanding is there was  
a young employee that was killed on uh basically 
commuting to work here. They didn't really have  
very much acred um benefits uh as far as leave 
time or sick leave. And there really wasn't any  
uh issue in that one that we could pull on like we 
did the other two examples that I mentioned. So,  
uh, but we do have some precedents for a couple of 
exceptions, but I'm not advocating for exceptions  
either. I also feel like that's with like 
severance agreements and it's kind of a different  
different animal. Yeah, it it was it was keyed to 
the retirement language in our policies. And it's  
it's worth noting too, and you kind of touched 
on this, John, in our personnel policy regarding  
um retired employees. It's those employees have 
to have at least 20 years with the city, too. So,  
you know, that's something that we could also 
include in this new policy. You know, certain  
amount of time that you've served working for the 
city, and that entitles you to a certain payout.
Yeah, it won't catch everybody clearly. You 
spoke Doug, you spoke to other councils,  
local nearby cities, other cities recently today. 
Yes. What' you find out? They [clears throat] they  
all have different varying policies when it comes 
to sick leave. Some cities have actually just  
went straight over to PTO. They've taken away 
vacation and sick leave and it's just paid time  
off and that's used and that block is paid out. 
They've headed to where one city that they if the  
employee passes away that they pay out 50% and 
it goes to the estate of that employee. There's  
there was just a myriad of one city just said we 
would like to do this but we can't afford it. And  
so in in this particular instance, you know, we 
we had a discussion and I know that we levy for  
some of our insurance benefits and what have you. 
But this in particular would come out of salaries  
out of the police department. So that is something 
that that we would have to pass on because we we  
pay salaries out of the taxes that we collect 
and fees that we collect. So it really is up to  
the council to make whatever policy they feel like 
fits this organization. I can tell you that Mount  
Pleasant just had their city administrator was 
preparing to retire and he'd passed away suddenly  
in I believe it was in December and I hadn't had 
a chance [clears throat] to call Mount Pleasant  
and you know they're they're kind of going 
through the same situation that we are but I  
don't know if they they haven't responded 
to my request yet. Yeah. So, where would  
those funds come out of if an employee retires? 
Because you mentioned it would be coming out of  
um salaries for in this particular instance. Would 
you It would come out of that anyway. It come out  
of that anyway. Okay. Meaning it's coming out of 
the same Yeah. same source. Yes. Where it's Well,  
assuming if it's a general fund employee, it 
would come out of those salaries. If it's water,  
it would come out water salaries. I mean just 
depends where they get paid out of. Okay. Yeah.
Would it be wise based on [clears throat] this 
discussion uh for the personnel committee to meet  
again and propose uh language [clears throat] if 
that's what the council's pleasure is? I mean, you  
know, we we couldn't come up with a we couldn't 
get on the same page with um a recommendation. So,  
if the council wants to have us draft that policy, 
then we can meet again and do that and bring it to  
the council for council's consideration at that 
time. I I kind of think when we're doing it too,  
we're looking for a little more input in 
it. So, if we want to revise the policy,  
maybe it's something we can do at a 
work session prior to the next meeting  
um when everybody's present rather than send 
committee back. Yeah, that's a good idea. And  
bring it back to council for approval again. Um 
I mean I I don't you know, we're not looking to
we're not looking to make it unfair in any 
way. So, um but we [clears throat] just  
we're looking for a little more input as 
to what other feelings were regarding this.
So you would recommend that we do add it to 
the next work session. Add it to the next work  
session. Study session or work. Study session. 
Study session. I'm sorry. Okay. Yes. Okay. And  
so when we do that, who comes up with language or 
is it not? I mean, do we just I guess maybe that's  
just a broader question that I have. If we've got 
committees and we're meeting in the committees and  
then we're not coming to any kind of agreement 
in the committee and then we're just hunting it  
to the study session. I really don't understand 
why we're it just seems so redundant. But so when  
we have a study session, what's going to be who's 
bringing what to the table? Like what are we going  
to discuss more than we've discussed now? or is 
somebody going to be bringing policy language or  
I mean what we could do is refer it back to the 
personnel committee and the personnel committee  
could bring to the council a proposed uh amendment 
to the polic to the employee policy uh manual uh  
incorporating um death and a payment of uh partial 
payment I believe of acred sick benefits and have  
the council to review what the policy is. Not 
recommending it or we may want to recommend at  
that time, but we're not voting on that now. But 
we are we can come up with a policy re or sorry,  
I'm sorry, policy language that the council 
can consider as a whole. That would be moving  
the moving things forward without I think it's 
a difficult decision. I think it's a difficult  
decision. We're having trouble with it and I 
understand I think I I think I understand why,  
but we would at least be moving it closer to a 
decision by the council if we actually have the  
language of a policy change. And would it be 
wise uh to have Doug and John uh participate  
in that committee meeting uh to assist the 
property committee in order to assist? You know,  
you're doing research, John. You Yeah. Yeah. I uh 
probably owe it to the council. Uh yeah, I know  
I've talked to Doug about this in advance, but 
um I'm in a situation where I got a hat on both  
horns. Uh it's conflicting because uh first of all 
uh the executive of Dave's estate uh is his former  
spouse. They've been divorced for several years, 
but she's the mother of his children who are his  
heirs, and my office is handling his estate. So, 
at some point, I would have to step back if we had  
to file a claim and have someone else do that. 
At the same time, uh someone else would have to  
advise you too as far as where to go on this. And 
I I can give you a lot of pointers uh while we're  
talking here and we're not really adverse with 
each other because we're throwing everything on  
the table, but uh if it turns into an adversity, 
u I basically have to step back on both sides. And  
um I know Doug uh uh and I have talked about that 
scenario as far as where we go with this. Now,  
I think the executive uh she's uh more than 
capable of continuing on expressing what she  
thinks the position of the children are. And each 
of the children, they have their own lawyers as  
far as their grown adults and so forth. They're 
not little kids. Uh but uh I'm not sure exactly  
what they're being told, but this is kind of 
a unique u uh it's an interesting question as  
far as a personnel manual that uh uh most of the 
time the public doesn't see. Um I the exceptions  
that I mentioned earlier tonight u they popped up 
about once every 15 years. So you're not having  
uh an abundance of this kind of situation to 
mold any kind of policies out of. So I don't I  
don't envy the personnel committee the ultimate 
decision that needs to be made if you get it  
revised. Uh I'm more than willing to uh input 
something with the caveat that I also have a  
file over at the office that's on the estate. Uh 
so you're you're certainly entitled to question  
me completely as far as whether there's some 
bias there and I want the best for ba Dave's  
uh uh heirs uh to the extent that that's 
possible but I also don't want the city to  
um um feel uh cheated uh or misled uh and some 
of these things that are in your policies um they  
they they get down to little subtle things like 
the conversation about where is the money coming  
that is going to pay this. Um there I know in in 
two of those examples of uh scenarios that u um  
were exceptions in other person situations. Uh the 
discussion in each of those uh virtue of another  
trial attorney was that there's an entitlement 
there because the employee contributed u to that  
uh from part of the withholding uh that we keep 
track of on every paycheck. Uh, and you know,  
if you've been done doing that for 20 years or 26 
years or something like that, uh, you're probably  
going to get a pretty strong argument from the 
state or the executive that, uh, that wasn't, uh,  
out of line to refer to that as an entitlement. Um 
the situation where we had with the um u severance  
um settlement a few years back that u was referred 
to by um a large labor law department and a large  
firm in De Moines as clearly an entitlement. U 
they threw some cases at me from the Iowa Supreme  
Court about uh it makes a difference if there has 
been some contribution towards it. So th those are  
just a a couple of scenarios where there was 
something else to consider. Um, and I'm sure  
there's uh a lot of other uh factors that have to 
do with what's humane and what's appropriate and  
so forth that uh you start looking at that and uh 
it pulls you away from the black letter language  
of the policy enough so that you u reassess and 
reassess. But we have a pretty well uh organized  
policies and procedures manual. And uh are we in a 
position then to refer this to personnel committee  
to draft a proposed amendment or change to the 
policy manual and have that reviewed by council?  
I mean, I'm I'm not opposed to, you know, 
presenting it at a study session or to,  
you know, having all of us just look at the 
personal the relevant personnel policies and  
then come up with something. I just wanted to know 
if we're going to be having it at a study session,  
what you know, like what is going to be different 
at the study session than the discussion that  
we're having now. So, I that's all I'm I'm 
not opposed to having it at a study session. I  
suppose you just get more opinions and therefore 
you have more right but if we have something  
that's presented that everybody can review and so 
that we are all making that informed decision and  
we don't that would suggest we would refer to 
personnel personnel would come up with proposed  
I mean the way you're you're you're mentioning 
it refer to personnel come up with a proposed  
amendment it's not approved or voted upon by the 
council but be presented to the council and they  
the the full council can review it and decide 
whether or not to go forward with it or not or  
amend it or change it in some way. So there at 
least I think I think the process of to from my  
point of view the process of drafting a proposed 
change is going to help us in making a decision.  
It' be useful in helping us make a decision at 
some point. I mean, if council even wants us  
to make the change, you know, I mean, like we 
discussed, there were really three options in  
front of us. And so, not knowing which option 
council has the appetite for I don't know.
Well, should we have a discussion of which 
of those three? Is it appropriate now to have  
a discussion on which of those three we have 
an appetite for or do we want one more crack  
at it with the personnel committee to bring 
something back to us? So I I I I think we kind  
of agree that making a one-time um adjustment 
is probably not the way to go. So that leaves  
us with either moving forward or not moving at 
all. So, I think if we get together and we we  
draft something or come up with something, 
if I I get the feeling that the sentiment  
here is that we move forward and try to amend the 
policy. And if we draft up something to do that,  
then we're only really left with the two options 
of either yes or no. So, I don't know if we really  
need to get into the weeds of anything else. 
Um, I kind of have the feeling that's where  
we're heading with this anyway. Um, and I I get 
the gist that that's kind of where everybody  
everybody I think kind of feels that way. Um, 
I'm not trying to speak for anybody, but um,  
we we could move forward in that direction if if 
it's agreeable. Sounds good. I would agree with  
that. Okay. You okay with that? Sounds good. 
Okay. So, we have a motion to move it back to  
personnel. That's your motion? Yes. to to move 
it back to personnel um to move forward with uh  
a draft of amending the policy for sick leave pay 
in the event of untimely death. Right. There's a  
motion second. Second. Second by Ferguson. Motion 
by Till. And the understanding as I understand it  
is we're drafting it. It's going to be but the 
idea is be considered by full council. Correct.  
Obviously. Okay. All right. All right. So, there's 
a motion and a second. Any further discussion?
Rebecca, if you call the roll, please. Tuhill, 
yes. Ferguson, yes. Gandandy, yes. Thompson,  
yes. Estie, yes. Kess, yes. Thank you, councel. 
Motion passes unanimously. Our next item,  
administrator and department reports. 
We'll start with our street department  
memo. Is Mr. Herd here? Yes. All right, 
Joe, it's your turn. State Department.
I suggested to Doug that we um start charging $25 
a load for the mulch. Um we load mulch every a lot  
of the Fridays and Saturdays. I don't know what 
the schedule is. I don't have it in front of me,  
but a lot through the summer. And so 
the skid steer sitting there running and  
uh it it gets taken advantage of a little bit. 
They come in there, you know, they'll go home and  
dump a load and then come back for another one. 
And I just think uh just like with the brush,  
um it'll help offset some of the cost. 
Equipment's getting expensive. So Mhm.
Any
comments, council, or questions, 
Mr. Herd? No. No. I mean,  
it's still well less than what a 
pickup load of mulch costs. So, um
I thought we had like unlimited mulch. Was that 
years ago? I remember we talked about our pile is  
starting to dwindle and it will have to we will 
have to spend a good chunk of change to re if  
when we get there. I've had this pile but it's 
it's going quickly. So I'll have to reg grind  
eventually if we're going to keep it, you know, 
but to offset the equipment cost this year has  
been pretty substantial and the heavy machinery, 
our loader, the skid steer, our backhoe.  
uh when that stuff has to be repaired or replaced, 
it's very expensive. Do you still plan to put  
mulch out behind HIV and let people self-load? 
There's there's a lot of people that do that  
and it's really nice for the residents that aren't 
abusing it, but there are people and I don't know  
how to fix it. There there are people that bring 
skid steers in and they load the entire pile up  
in their dump trucks and take to their farms. And 
I really like it that citizens can go down there  
and scrape that in. You know, it's it's I'm I 
don't know how we're going to fix that right now,  
but the loading of the mulch at the shop, I just 
feel like it would be nice to offset that cost  
a little bit. [clears throat] Okay. Joe, how how 
much of the uh cost is a $25 fee? How did you come  
up with the $25 fee? Just it's kind of the same as 
a full pickup load of brush. If somebody brings in  
a full pickup load of brush, that's kind of what 
we charge them. A half pickup load is $1,250 or  
something like that. And we have people that bring 
in some pretty good size trailers and you know  
we're putting two and three scoops in there. 
I know the real good mulch from Bass is like  
$85 for a small scoop. So I just feel like it will 
help you know the the people that really want it  
will get it. They're going to pay that and then 
the other people that are kind of abusing it, they  
it might kind of slow that down a little bit. I 
thought we implemented the brush load fees so that  
we would offset those costs as equipment costs. 
I think it was just brush was what I remember,  
but I could be wrong. I think that it was just 
the brush coming in and then if the brush has  
to be ground and us handling it also. We've 
also increased our um we used to just do two  
brush pickups a year. Now we're doing four. That's 
about 4 weeks of about eight pieces of equipment  
running through Fairfield, you know. So, but we 
did all that because it was going to be so much  
cheaper to have and like I thought the reason why 
we decided to have more brush pickups was because  
it was going to be significantly cheaper than just 
having the mulch pile that was being abused in the  
brush pile. It does help keep that down, but I 
also did that because I felt like I want to make  
sure the citizens were getting the brush picked 
up. I'm handling the brush in Fairfield, right?  
That's the reason I did it. Oh, okay. I thought 
that we talked about the money. Well, it is. It is  
significantly. You know, the the contractors are 
not bringing their stuff in. So, yes, we do have  
less, right? But there's still a lot. When I up, 
you know, if I just knocked it down to two times,  
we'd have even less, right? Um, so there there and 
a lot of people bring in on Fridays and Saturdays,  
too. It's a pretty busy place. Yeah. 
So, but that's it's up to you. You guys,
it does have to go through an ordinance in three 
readings. This This would have to go through an  
ordinance. This was to kind of get your opinion 
and then we'll bring an ordinance. The the 15,000  
to grind a big pile. Yes. When was that? When was 
the last time? Um I don't have the date, but about  
a year and a half ago. Parker, I think, we had a 
guy guy from Atammo do it. And since then, I've  
had I did have an a local guy do a small amount 
that was 5,000. It was a minimal amount. So,  
okay. All right. Wow. I mean, considering there's 
costs associated with having employees there on  
a Saturday and um you know, the fuel using 
the machines. I mean, I I think it's a pretty  
manageable fee for because it it it takes work to 
make it mulch. It's not mulch when it comes in,  
right? I mean, and we've had people look at taking 
it over, but they just they can't make it work for  
for what it cost. Yep. Yeah. Yeah. It's just it's 
not feasible. Yep. Well, that was the property,  
too. It's not our property that we were looking 
at. Um I guess the only reason why I asked those  
questions, Joe, is just because I remember 
when we discussed all of this and we first  
implemented the fees for the brush. And maybe I'm 
wrong, but I thought that those discussions were  
about offsetting the cost to mulch it and then, 
you know, like, oh, we've got so much mulch,  
we can't wait to get rid of it, you know. So, 
again, I I feel maybe I'm just misremembering,  
but um it's not that the $25 is some crazy fee. 
It just seems like we just implemented and maybe  
it's not just it was like several years ago talked 
about implementing the fee for even bringing brush  
and then I thought that was for offsetting those 
costs but I I think the initial when when it all  
happened I was just trying to get something done 
and and maybe I didn't think through everything  
that needed to be done but I you know like I said 
I my guy is sitting out there it's 90° in the  
skid steer the air conditioner is running um the 
overtime that it's not what we're getting. I mean  
I I think last year we got maybe 40 or 50 tickets 
times 1250 um is not that much money is is right  
is coming in. We're we're still spending lot more 
than it's not like a money-m situation. So but  
that's up to you folks whatever you whatever you 
want to do. Well, Joe, under the circumstances,  
is $25 enough? I think it needs to be something 
to slow down the people that are abusing it. Is  
that Is that one of the major reason? It's one 
of the things, but also to help offset some of  
the cost. So, I think when you add a fee to 
it, it's it's a whole lot less appealing than  
if it's free. Okay. Do asking is that enough? 
You want it more? I mean, should it be more?
We have to serve the citizens somewhat. You 
know, I'm just trying to offset it. You know,  
I think if you make it 50 and 60, you're 
not going to I think then it won't which,  
you know, then it might come to an end. 
I don't know who's going to buy it then.  
And and we're really not offering a premium 
product. We're offering what's dumped and  
is a reasonable amount for a scoop. you 
know, you know, I I think that's I mean,  
it's not a scoop of cedar wood or something like 
that. So, yeah. Does a load fill the back of a  
pickup? Depending on which bucket we use, yes, 
more and depending on the pickup. Yes. Yeah. I  
haven't priced it at Walmart lately, but their 
bagged mulch used to be five, six bucks a bag.  
So, four or five of those bags and you're catching 
up with yourself and I'm sure that there's dozens  
of bags in the pickup. Like a pickup truck. 
You'd be spending several hundred to easily.
So, we probably need a motion to instruct 
to move to an ordinance. Is that right?  
Did you say? Yeah. Yeah. So, moved. There's a 
motion. My motion is to to create an ordinance  
um indicating a $25 fee for each pickup load 
of mulch provided by the streets department.  
Would that [clears throat] be sufficient for 
you, Melanie? Okay, there's a motion by Do we  
do we want to include 25 or just creating a 
fee because that may be floating eventually,  
right? Is there language you can put in there 
that creates a feast but doesn't put a resolution?  
We could create Can you do that via resolution? In 
other words, so we can change it without being we  
creating new amend my motion to not include the 
dollar amount. Just a fee. Yeah, just to include  
a fee. Okay. A feat. Is that good, Melanie? It 
will work. Okay. There's a motion by Kess. It's  
been amended. And there's a second by Tuhill. Any 
further discussion, council? So, everybody who's  
coming is bringing a pickup truck or does anybody 
ever come without a pickup truck or there be
There occasionally are people with SUVs that 
fill up. Okay. Um like totes or stuff. Okay.
And you're charging 1250 when they bring 
in in something like that, right? Yeah,  
roughly. So I mean it would be probably 
comparable to the same fee structure. All  
right. Anything further? Council. If not, Rebecca 
call the role. Kess, yes. Tuh Hill, yes. Thompson,  
yes. Ferguson, yes. Estie, no. Gandandy, yes. 
All right. Thank you, council. We've approved  
our next item. Thanks, Joe. Thank you, Joe. Yes. 
Our next item is city administrative report.  
We had a busy last couple of weeks. We're always 
busy, but uh in particular, I wanted to and I  
know I know that you've had communication with me 
back and forth. We had last Friday, the Daybreak  
Counseling Incorporated come to speak with city 
employees with some of the losses that that we've  
had over the last six months. it. I thought it 
was extremely important that we utilized there's  
not a lot of counseling resources in Fairfield 
and this was a service that was recommended to  
us through Jefferson County. I do have I do have 
these brochures in the back. I've got 40 or 50,  
but also we could pass them along to citizens that 
that may need some resources. But they sent five  
counselors down to talk with employees. It went 
very very well and I wanted to thank them and they  
actually do uh work with our insurance companies 
to if city employees would like to reach out and  
do some side counseling. I also wanted to that 
very same day uh we had the ISU students from  
the housing 2.0 going around. I sent every one 
of the council members a an email from one of  
the professors. They would actually like to talk 
with the council members and their awards. And  
if you read that email and the information that 
they sent us that they said that they'd be happy  
to come and set one-on-one or meet with you via 
Zoom in regards to your wards and kind of ask some  
questions and and feel things out. I know that the 
council is extremely busy. I also told them that  
if they wanted to meet with you together that they 
would either have to come to a council meeting or  
we would have to publish a special meeting to have 
the discussions that they need to to go through  
the information that they're trying to to gather. 
So, they'd be willing to meet with individual  
council members by Zoom or in person? Both. 
Whatever whatever you would desire. But again,  
it's a long ways for them to drive. I think it's 
what 2 and 1/2 hours for them to drive down here.  
So, we'd have to make special arrangements, but 
I also said that if you know the information that  
if they need it sooner rather than later, then we 
can figure out a way that we can have those Zoom  
meetings and kind of answer the questions they 
need. The other thing that I wanted to touch on  
is we should have budget books prepared this week 
for ways and means and yay and here we go again  
we're we're a little bit behind but uh we're 
ready to go to get those assembled and start  
arranging those ways and means meetings and then 
the other thing that I would like for us to begin  
uh conversations with personnel that given the 
circumstances that we're in, we will be needing  
to figure out what the council's desires and 
recommendations for the search for a police chief.  
Whether we want to use whether we want to use a 
search firm, whether we want to do it locally,  
whether we want to promote from within, what does 
that look like? was sort of a police chief. We're  
looking for we definitely need to make sure 
that you know when we're hiring we're hiring  
for Fairfield and and every city is looking for 
something different in expectations when it comes  
to their department heads and this is one of them. 
So, I would like for this to go to personnel for  
consideration, kind of get a game plan, and then 
move forward with next steps. I don't want to rush  
this. I think this needs to be a slow burn so that 
we're evaluating who the next chief will be and  
what that chief looks like. Is that fair? Fair. 
So, it's referred. You'd like to refer to the  
personnel committee? Yes, sir. Good. Thank you. Do 
you need a motion for that? Let's have a motion to  
send it to committee. I would move that we send 
that to the personnel committee. Second. There's  
a motion to refer the consideration of choosing 
or the steps of choosing our next police chief  
referred to the personnel committee for cons. And 
there's a second. Any further discussion? Council.
If not, Rebecca, please go roll. Estie, 
yes. Gandi, yes. Kets, yes. Ferguson,  
yes. Thompson, yes. Too, yes. Thank you, 
council. That passes. Any further a set for  
questions. All right. Any questions 
of our city administrator council?
If not, is there something? No, I'm waiting 
for Tom. Okay. [laughter] Okay. If not,  
we will Is there a motion to adjurnn? Some 
moved. There's a motion and a second motion.  
All in favor signify signify by saying I. I. 
Mean stands adjourned. Thank you, council.