Title: City of Fairfield | Study Session & City Council 6.23.25
Date: 2025-06-24
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EZjCGlJ6kY8

6:31 I believe 6:30. So um this is our
work session. Um first we're going to
talk about talk talk about three topics
here. Public restroom renovation,
heritage walk proposal and a waterfront
proposal. Uh Deb Williamson from the
beautifification commission wants to um
discuss these three items. Hey guys.
So, as you may remember, I was here once
before trying in seeking um lost funds
to remodel the restroom. And when that
was denied, we went back to the drawing
board and came up with um a plan to seek
funding through a grant. um one of the
grants that we're looking at and when I
when I say we, it's a a combination of
um
the Fairfield Beautifification
Commission, the chamber um
Grow Fairfield, and I can't think of the
other Fairfield Cultural Alliance. So,
we'd like to seek the city's approval to
apply for a grant through the Washington
County Riverboat Foundation for either a
remodeled or a new public restroom. And
we've also talked about how, you know,
it's been decades since it's been used
and and the burden on the city and all
that, but I just wanted to share with
you some photos. Um, and before I share
those, let me just say that I was
downtown um during the Power Wagon rally
and also the night before the first
Fridays and we just had lovely weather
and lovely visitors and they were going
in and out of our public bathroom and I
was a little surprised. So, as I was
watering flowers on Saturday and I saw a
mom and children go in and just turn
around and come right back out. So
curious, I opened the doors. I went in
and Jason, here we go.
I just wanted to share with you the
photos of what we're using to welcome
our visitors.
So, I'm sorry, Deb. Is this the current
public bathroom on Burlington? On
Burlington? I thought it was closed.
Yeah, a lot of people think it's closed.
It's closed most of the time. They will
open it up when there's stuff on the
square. So, it's embarrassing. I didn't
touch a single door. And this is why the
mom of two littles dashed out the minute
she walked in. She didn't stay.
This is what she was greeted with. Yep.
We have ceiling tiles that help you hear
the critters crawling around in the
asbestous above.
Um, we have,
well, it's kind of hard to see by this
photo, but the, um, the windows, the
glass. Um, it's not tinted, it's just
filthy inside and out. Um, and this is,
you know, I didn't get on a ladder. This
is what it looks like in the entry. The
the tiles are stained and broken and
open. It smells. It makes you cough
because there's so much pollutant in the
air. Um, and there's another filthy view
of through the glass.
Um, and I have to say these photos even
don't even do the horror justice. I have
never
ever gone to a bathroom that was this
horrible.
Is that the last photo?
Yeah. I personally, Deb, I don't think
we should be opening it. That's my
personal opinion. I agree. Yeah. I
agree, too. I I didn't think we were
opening. I I believe the reason it's
open is because there are some decision
makers who think that it's needed for
the community. It is getting used when
we have events. But as you as you heard
me say and as you can see with your own
eyes,
we either we either need to fix it or or
shut it down. I would love to fix it. I
think it would serve the community
tremendously. Our downtown is the heart
of our community and I believe you have
notes about tonight's
Becca. Do does do they have access to
the notes I sent? But okay. So, I won't
bother like reading this all to you, but
you know, just basically um I'm just
kind of wanting to discuss this a little
bit and just see what you all have in
terms of your thoughts about like how
does how does a nice public restroom
with u or a welcoming information center
that happens to have two really
beautiful family restrooms. How do you
feel like that lands for our community?
Do you feel like that adds value?
because if it does, I can seek grants
for this, not using any taxpayer funds.
And if there's a concern about I mean,
I've heard people concerned about the
vandalism and the and the abuse of the
building by uh homeless, that's a
solvable problem. You can have good
security cameras. You can have systems
like subscriptions like ADP or Simply
Safe. You can uh have automatic closing
doors that lock and open by themselves.
Not only does that cut down on the time
it takes for someone to physically open
the facility, but it also secures the
facility. And then if there are motion
detectors in the lobby, you're not going
to have people vandalizing this after
hours. So I may not come up with just
tonight with like 100%
um security solution or 100% anti-
vandalism solution. But other
communities, Washington, Mount Pleasant,
they've figured it out. They have public
restrooms downtown and they're nice. In
fact, Washington, Iowa,
um just finished their um new public
bathroom. It's it's not quite as nice as
the one I envision and the one that our
group is is thinking about. It's uh it
was funded by the Washington County
Riverville Foundation. It cost them
280,000
or 270,000 something like that. It's
much smaller than the footprint of what
we have and it didn't have like an
information center or anything about it
that and Connie you saw the the photos
of it was pretty utilitarian looking and
ours was located on Burlington and this
is a a chat GBT rendering and it may
look a little fancy for what I'm talking
about but there are hundred ways you can
make the bathroom look better. Um, this
is a renovation. So, the brick is still
there. It's just the roof is raised and
the um and the front entrance has a like
a a slightly different elevation. Um,
but but this is kind of one of many
ideas of what we could present as a much
more welcoming place for our our
visitors so they wouldn't go in, be
horrified, turn right around, run out.
Is that still the current footprint?
Yes. Okay.
And so by um comparing this to
Washington's by comparing it to some
other fancier um uh public restrooms
with similar footprints um preliminary
budget is 350,000 that's an add 50 for
like the bond what did you call it the
bond contingency bond contingency and
then you know some unknown so I would
say um requesting 500 approximately
500,000 from uh Washington County River
Vote Foundation would be
a ballpark amount to apply for. I think
it would definitely add value.
Obviously, I mean, I think we need some
public restrooms downtown. like Terry, I
I didn't know that they were even open
to the public, but I think that um it
would be great if we could redo the I
mean, I love the way that it looks now
with the A-frame, you know, on the
exterior, but I think has anyone seen
the pretty bathrooms at Shitakqua Park?
Now, that was Oh my gosh, they're so
beautiful. So just I just have so much
pride seeing that when I go there and
I've lived here 45 years and and just I
I can imagine that that's the feeling we
would all have if we get something new
and beautiful right there on Burlington
that we get to see every day and it
probably wouldn't have the same like
woodsy look that the 1 in aqua has. But
isn't that just the most fantastic? Does
everyone know how much that cost?
$500,000.
Yep. So, as you as you can hear, my my
estimate it's not off by much. It's it's
pretty similar. It's just different
materials, slightly different layout.
Well, I think and until such time as we
get a renovated bathroom that we
personally, I don't think we should be
opening that because it's embarrassing.
Agreed. and that we should have worked
with Fairfield Larson Convention Center
to have it staffed because that's where
people use now. That that facility is
used a lot during the day for a public
restroom. It's a block away. It's not
that far away. If you're on the other
side of the the
square, that's going to be a block away.
So,
and I'm all for applying for grants, but
[Music]
There's, you know, I'm sorry to be
pessimistic, but No, I hear you because
we've applied how many it four times to
the same uh foundation, right? Turned
down every time. So, you know, it's a
slim chance, but in 20 years, we've
gotten $11,000 out of that foundation.
Maybe 11,5. It's very small. Yeah. Well,
that's a shame cuz they award 10 million
a year. Yeah.
So, I feel like we haven't been treated
personally. Yep. Yep. We got people
going up in there and using the place.
Yep. Yep. So, I mean, that's that's what
I'd like to start with. I agree. I think
we need to close it. Please close it.
Stop opening it. Um and uh yeah, I think
like I said earlier, I think the the
vandalism is it's all of that's a
solvable problem. I think it would add
value. Like you said, Elizabeth, it's
just it could be wonderful. And and
Connie, I know we have that fallback
plan for part-time use of the Yeah. of
the civic center, but I'm downtown every
single day. Every day watering. There's
nowhere for me to go. I go home. Well,
and you can come here.
Cuz that's a public restroom, too.
Technically. Well, I'm I'm here a little
earlier than you all are. Oh, okay. I'm
watering before, so it's not open then.
Yeah. Yeah. But, you know, it'd be nice
if if we had uh a place for all of our
volunteers. Cambridge is going to have
24 intern volunteers July 1st. And um I
mean are we going to all come here? I
mean it's it's going to be it's a
challenge no matter what we do, whether
it's a volunteer group or or a big event
where we have 2,000 people on the
square. So council, do you want an
action item on next meeting to uh
approve a grant? Well, I think the idea
of renovating the building is nice, but
there's also the cost of cleaning and
maintaining it going forward. And
obviously, we're not paying that cost
now. Um, yeah, you are. You're heating
it uh 7 by 24. Heating it is very
different from cleaning and maintaining
the infrastructure. That's true. So, you
can actually build selfcleing restrooms
park
sports. Yeah. And and I'm glad you
brought that up because I think it would
be uh beautifification commission did
discuss whether or not we would
contribute any of our time to
maintaining the restroom and we we could
stock it easily and check it between
cleanings. A commercial cleaning is $50
a week.
I know for a space that size or for
what? Two family bathrooms and a little
lobby area. It's always 700 ft.
I also spoke with Terry Baker at one
point because she was really interested
in she's part of the group working.
Yeah. Okay. So, I tried to talk her into
having an office there. It's not the
room for it's not going to work. Yeah.
So, as as I said, I mean, we're already
um we're not air conditioning the place,
but we're already heating it um to keep
the pipes from freezing, and there
probably are a lot of broken pipes in
there, to be honest.
um you know we have uh
what was I going to say when it is used
we use supplies so of course that number
is going to go up so that's an expense
but other than that you know just
keeping it spotless isn't going to be
that hard it's not going to be that
expensive we're talking lost funds could
cover that unless there's some rule
against
that happening
well I I would make a motion to at least
put it on the agenda so we
you know, look into potential grant
funding. Well, we don't make motions in
a work session. That's right. I guess I
would I don't know. I would be
interested in seeing it on the agenda so
that we could maybe make a motion at
that time to to approve grant approval.
Yeah. Okay. So, should it go to a
committee first and like dig into it and
find out like what all the risks and
concerns are or is it a matching grant
program or is it outright? Not this one.
Um, and but honestly, there are other
sources of funding for this that won't
use taxpayer dollars.
I mean, not Yeah. I mean, that's
beautiful. I like it. I think it's uh
love to have that building, but I think
it's more important to have a building
that functions period. So if that means
we could get something more utilitarian
for a lot less,
you know, again, might depend on how
much ground funds you got. Mhm. So, and
how if you're raising any funds, what
that can look like. Certainly, if we go
to donors and we uh and solicit funds
from some folks who are very charitable
in our community, um I've already talked
to a few and they're much more
interested in uh having something we can
really brag about. It's like it's like,
well, I could get excited about such and
such. So, so the first phase of it is to
get it built, whether that means
retrofitting, which can cost more
weirdly, or tearing it down and building
new. Um second phase is to bring in
vending machines um that could be
you know an attraction along with the
information in there digital information
and brochures for what to do, what to
see, what what's new with Fairfield. Um
and of course everybody's on their
technology, but it's nice to have
something tangible when you visit
Fairfield or when you're new to
Fairfield, when you've moved here. Um,
in addition to the vending machines, we
envision um partnering with Jefferson
County Hospital for a U
brain. Uh, bike rental service, a city
bike rental service. We have, I think,
the world's best loop trail. Absolutely
love it so much. And it would just be so
nice to have ebikes that you could rent
at this facility, also at Jeff County
Hospital, and possibly a third point.
And I know if it was done by the city,
it would be a loss leader, but it could
be a private partner, private public
partnership and not be a burden to the
city. So again, that's not phase one.
That's just wanting to show you the
potential of this this lovely new
facility that could do more than just
provide us with a toilet.
Okay, so I didn't want to take up too
much more time on Okay, so that will
excuse me. uh everybody's come in
agreement put an action item on for next
council meeting.
Okay, let's move on to the next heritage
walk proposal. So what this is um
so the heritage walk would be like a
walking trail, not like a biking trail,
not like a vehicle trail, just just
walking. And on um it would incorporate
alleys. Um it would start at um Carnegie
Museum and by utilizing the alley
between the Carnegie Museum, the Edward
Jones building, you would you would turn
let's see what is that? You would turn
west and I don't know the name of the
alley that it connects with, but it
leads straight to Central Park. So,
walking through this alley, you have on
either side brass plaques with
Underground Railroad, Wilson Building,
you know, different historic um
uh buildings or events uh or anything
that you know really uh has through the
years become things things that we brag
about. And on the plaque, not only would
it have like Underground Railroad as a
title, but there's a QR code. So we
could listen to the audio describing our
history with that. Um the trail or the
the walk would cross Central Park. So
there could be kiosks, you know, like at
this height where you could see a little
bit of uh some imagery and some some
content. And there's the QR code.
Um, all of this could be linked together
through the cultural alliance website
and their brochures and in many ways
creating a a 365 a day event, 365 day a
year event for Fairfield. So, the walk
continues uh across Central Park. The
walk goes down the alley that we were
calling Heritage Alley. It's going to be
just so beautiful with its uh outdoor um
art gallery and the plaques on either
side of the alley all the way to the
courthouse
including the courthouse grounds walk
through another alley and all the way to
Howard Park and to the depot with kiosks
and QR codes. So what I'm seeking uh is
to discuss what steps need to be taken
to gain access to the alleys and gain
access to Central Park and to
yeah what would this next steps be?
So, there's there's quite a bit of
content here, but I'm sure you're all
familiar with um so many of the things
that we
are proud of about our our heritage and
our buildings and our people.
Any thoughts?
How would this be funded?
Do you have a plan of funding for this?
So, we have we have access to $800,000.
Um, and I can't remember the name of the
grant. It's something Chuck Espie is
involved with. So, no taxpayer dollars.
Okay. Just private donation. And then I
know the brochure, the walking brochure
that Fairfield Culture Alliance did is
really nice. It is. Yeah. And um
be nice to do it digitally like you say.
Yeah. QR codes. I like the idea.
Deb, when you say access to $800,000,
how for this project, how certain it's
through the um how certain are those
funds? They're already there. They're
there. Yeah, they're there. And Chuck
Esby has access to that. It's something
he's wanted for years and years. So,
he's So, if the council were to green
light this project, there's the money is
already there. The money is already
there. And the the organization that
would be uh managing the project is not
the beautifification, but it's the
Fairfield Culture Alliance.
So, not sure why I'm here other than
just maybe Bert couldn't make it, but
yeah. What do you need from the council
city? Um, well, we'd need to access
Central Park, um, and to work with
someone on council to come up with what
material. I mean, there are so many
options. Painting painting the walk,
laying brick, laying stamped concrete,
what would the what would the walk look
like?
So, that kind of thing. And then just
getting permission to put it in place.
I'm confused.
What do you want to do?
So the walk is more than just the brass
plaques. It's something you look down
at. So the low budget, you know, not
that we need a low budget, but you could
you could paint the walk on the alley.
Um you could create the stamped brick
like we have in Heritage Alley, which is
I think lovely, but that just means it's
a longer lead time. Possibly it's phase
two. Um or you could lay brick like we
have downtown around the sidewalks. So,
it depends on, you know, what do we want
Fairfield to look like? Um, but just
having access to Central Pike, like I I
need council's permission to to do this
and to plant the kiosks and I need
council's uh support to negotiate with
uh you know, for for our city attorney
to um lead on his assistant to create
all those contracts for all the
buildings where we have to get uh just
one other question from the building
owners to put flax on the buildings.
these these funds was available. Are
there these funds also available for
maintenance of this build? I doubt it. I
mean, I don't know the answer honestly,
but I doubt it. So, if it were this were
to happen, the city be responsible for
the maintenance of the
kiosks. I mean, the brass plaques aren't
going to require maintances
are the responsibility of the
businesses.
not the city. So there wouldn't be much
there would be any cost to the city
other than Well, isn't the brick in the
alley though because the alley's ours
that portion is the cities. I guess
I think it's uh something that I mean it
sounds pretty enticing but it's also
something I think at this point it's
developed enough to go to a committee
maybe property or economic development
to uh also I'm wondering about working
with the public art committee with this
public art committee. Yeah. So yeah. So
Jasmine Bod is the chair of the Pure
Cultural Alliance. So she's keyed in
with and bring it to a little bit more
fruition, a little more
at another work session maybe. Well, as
they develop their plan, a cultural
plan,
you could flesh out some of those
details. Yeah. Yeah. So I mean clearly
early stage, but yeah, I'm just trying
to see if I mean what the reaction is.
Overall, you got a positive reaction,
council. I mean, I think so. Seems like
a lowrisk proposition. It's better the
city. Yeah. Yeah. The thing I like about
it most is
it connects to the digital age and it
creates events, you know, as needed.
People can come unlimited number of
people can come any day of any day of
the year and enjoy it. So, it's very
exciting.
Okay. Which committee sorry I have a
question. Which committee would we feel
that this falls under? Would it be
economic development p or sorry property
public safety? Well I think at this
point the idea is maybe that there's
more development on the other side
public arts committee and then bring it
back to perhaps a work session and then
decide what they have what you are
there.
But property makes the most sense
because that's other than just saying,
"Sure, tear up Central Park. We don't
mind." You need to talk with all of the
property owners and get permission to
put a plaque or plaques on their
buildings. And that wouldn't that be
property?
Well, it's not city property, right? I
mean, to some degree there there might
be some city property, but um it's
probably a mix. So
but uh we can decide that later. Maybe
the chamber should be approached.
Say that again. Maybe the chamber should
be approached about this idea and see
how they can help with business owners
and Oh, I see. Oh, I see. I see. So just
Yeah. Chamber andor grow Fairfield.
Well, the public art committee does have
a member of the chamber on it, so they
can take back that information there. I
know that Jasmine and Burke Chinowski
are very motivated to do the leg work
and knock on the doors and get, you
know, get that going. We would just need
that backed up by legal language. Um
because it's it's city these are city
plaques. Yeah. Sorry. Can you expand on
who those people are? What are their
last names? Binowski is vice chair
Fairfield Cultural Alliance and Jasmine
Bod is chair. Okay.
and her Jasmine is uh highly involved in
the what is the public art public art
and you know it can be a Fairfield it
can be a cultural alliance project too
for that matter you know maybe you just
want to develop it through there yeah
they were just so excited because
they're the ones that put together the
uh the original architectural tour so it
kind of it it fits under there as well
and you got the two people that are
really willing to go for it. I think it
over in all there's positivity here. So
I think just flush out more details.
Okay. I can bring I'll let Bert take the
next part of it. I used all my time.
We've got just a couple minutes. All
right. So if you want to let's take a
look at water fountain proposal. So I'm
proposing
I found a four tier but but it's
actually a three tier. I don't know why
they're not counting the top part. Um,
this is a concrete iron fountain. Um, no
taxpayer dollars.
We will talk about maintaining it
though. That's I'm sure going to have
some impact. So, the the the idea is to
place this on the square. And in terms
of the four quadrants,
um, it's best under shade because if
you're going to go enjoy the fountain,
especially in this weather, why stand in
the sun? So, you're in the shade, you're
hearing the water fall, and maybe you're
getting a little splash. Um,
it has a pump that recirculates the
water, so it needs access to power. Um,
and so all four quadrants of the square
have power. And the one that I think
would be most uh appropriate for this is
the
southwest quadrant.
That's the one least I know.
That's the one least used by the vendors
for um our fairfield
for riders. This does need uh no no
access to plumbing because it's
recirculating. Um beautifification
commission voted to maintain it if it
gets approved. And what that looks like
is putting peroxide in the water and
occasionally using a a cloth to just
stir up the water so that um like once a
month so that it doesn't um grow out.
And then to winterize it, it has a
drain. It's it's I don't know how many
gallons it holds, but it gets drained.
Um the pump is removed and taken indoors
for the winter, and then there's a cover
for it for the winter. it doesn't it
doesn't sit out in the elements
collecting snow.
Um
so the maintenance of it, you know,
requires winterizing it and and opening
it. Um
dealing with bubbles. The funds are are
no taxpayer dollars. I'm sorry, what did
you say? I said dealing with bubbles.
That like isn't that a problem? Some
places people pour bubbles into
fountains and then it's a huge myth.
happens twice once every two years in
Oh, really?
Maybe it's a bigger problem other
places. I'm not trying to put any ideas
in anybody's
You said this corner. Is it fun to put
bubbles in there? Cuz we could do No, I
think it's a mess. I think mess. I think
it comes up the fountain. Doug, what was
I'm sorry. You said the southwest corner
quadrant. Southwest. Yeah, like towards
Americas. So it's busy over there. Got
to be seen by, you know, the two busiest
intersections, Maine and or one inter
the two busiest streets, Burlington and
Maine. And um I do know there is
maintenance. We maintained a fountain
for 18 years and every month and a half.
We were powerwashing it. Really? Yep.
Who was this? Rockite doesn't do the
job. You know, does for a while, but
then you know it gets a little icky and
you got to drain it. And we would always
power wash ours. Okay.
So, just so you know. So, you had to do
more than just like rub it. So, I'd be
curious to know what Mount Pleasant does
for theirs. Did you talk to them about
their maintenance? I didn't. I talked to
uh Beerfield Pre-cast concrete. They're
the ones that kind of gave me the the
ABCs of taking care of What would it be?
Iron. It's concrete. Concrete over iron.
Under. So, they call it concrete iron.
And it comes in several finishes. Um, if
you wanted to see one in real life,
there's a smaller version out at
Fairfield pre-cast concrete. There's
also one Oh. Oh. There's also one, and I
knock on this woman's door. Her name's
Claudia. She lives at Maine and Madison
in this big old house. And there's a
fountain in her front yard that she got
from and it's so cool. She loves it. She
was such a sweetheart. She goes, "Yeah,
I got it at
or feel free to ask. So I asked her how
she maintained it and you know she said
the same thing basically. So I don't
know if it has something to do with like
the foliage over the like if there's a
lot of uh debris falling in it possibly
causing that's part of it. It's a mix of
a lot of things. But so it is 7:00. So I
guess council if you give Dev feedback
on what you're thinking about that. Um
and uh we'll go from there. Okay. Okay.
Thank you guys. Thanks. So, does anyone
need a one minute break here?
If not, let's It is like I say, it is
7:00. So, um
I'll uh
call the meeting to order.
We please call the role. To him, here.
Estie, yes. Florenoi, yes. Gandandy,
yes.
Yes. Ro, yes.
Thank you. Are there any changes to the
agenda?
Seeing none, uh we'll move on to the
consent agenda. Um but also I just want
to it's a quick reminder
uh to those in in the chambers that um
we would like people to respect
uh the deis and if you have documents to
pass out to pass to pass them to either
John or Tom here uh versus coming up to
the deis we won't respect this area here
and prefer that you not come to the
deis. So, uh, thank you for
respecting that. Uh, consent agenda,
approval of the minutes of the June 9th,
2025 council meeting, approval of the
June 10th, 2025 special payroll in the
amount of 923 2034.
Approval of the June 20th, 2025 payroll
at 29 200,90682.
Acceptance of volunteer center committee
minutes. Acceptance of library board
minutes. Resolution of employment in the
park and recreation department.
Resolution of promotion in the water
department. Resolution setting fiscal
year 26 salaries.
Resolution authorizing fiscal year uh 26
cigarette permits. Approval of liquor
license for Cafe Paradiso Inc. and
Shokai. Approval of general obligation
debt in the amount of 1,10,852.
Approval of a payment to the department
of revenue in the amount of $8,367
of approval of total claims in the
amount of $734,19824.
[Music]
claims more than 75,000 include
Krishnner contracting uh 163,38558
for the fire station uh EBS 79,19674
uh that would be uh for our
um healthcare pre premiums and VASU
partners 194,93540
I assume that's for the rebate uh of
their um tiff tiff thank you uh so
Without move to approve consent agenda.
Moved by Gandandy.
Second. Second by Kess.
Any discussion. I did review claims and
they seemed in order. Great. Thank you.
Um but there was no link to the claims
on the agenda. Oops.
Yeah, you're right. I did notice that
when I did it yesterday, but I kind of
forgot. So, um yeah. So, we can get that
linked up. Right. Okay. Um, with that,
uh, any other discussion?
Hearing none, please call. Gandandy,
yes. Kess, yes. Ro, yes. SD, uh, yes. I
just need to abstain from approval of
the minutes of the June 9th council
meeting. Floro, yes. Tu, yes.
Great. Thank you. Um, so we have several
public forum and appearances tonight.
So, um, just as a reminder, we do want
to keep each 3 to 5 minutes. We do have
a better timer now. What's easier for
you to see that Doug will put up on the
little thing here. And, um, when it goes
when you have a minute left, it turns to
red. So, it's a little bit easier to
see. Just, you know, know that many of
you attach documents, which we really
appreciate. It gives the council chance
to review all those. So, just know that
they've reviewed those. So, if you can
hit the high points and what we're
looking for certainly is new information
uh not repeating information that you
gave us the last time, but again, we're
looking for new information and
certainly um I'm just asking all of us
to please bring our best selves to the
conversation and we look forward to
hearing what what new information that
you have for us. So, but first we will
uh hear from Faith Reeves,
sustainability coordinator.
[Music]
Okay.
Thank you.
Good evening, council
and mayor. I appreciate this opportunity
to give you an update report about all
the resilient
the resilient action committee's
activities and my activity since the
last time we met. The last time we met,
I presented you with a summary of our
resilient action plan, the Fairfield's
resilient action plan that the rack has
been working on, the resilient action
committee has been working on since
November of 2023. you'll see a rundown
of the process that we've been working
on over the last month, which is the um
the selection of early implementation
projects. And so on that first page,
you'll see what we've been doing. We've
gone through the process of
synchronizing our uh all of our rack
activities between the subcommittees,
which we have six subcommittees, just as
a reminder. food waste, buildings and
energy, private land stewardship,
land use, waste management, and
enterprise solutions and community
connections. Each of the subcommittees,
or actually three of the subcommittees,
have went through the selection process
and are working on or have finished
their early implementation framework.
I've got just a few bullet points that
you'll see in the first two pages there.
Um and in the back you'll see the
frameworks for the three subcommittees
who have gone through their uh framework
selection process, their early
implementation projects.
Food ways is headlong into um working
for funding around a local food system
barriers assessment. So we're looking to
uh inquire from our consumers and our
producers. We want to know how can we
get more local food into the um into the
kitchens of our local consumers. So,
we've got a grant submitted for that
assessment. We're also looking at
another USDA grant, a local food
promotions program grant um that I'll
update you on the next time I'm with
you. We are we are working on a Grow a
Row program, which is a is a food
donation, a fresh produce donation
program. That's something that we're
building educational materials around
and we're going to build on the home
gardening support program materials that
we have already active in the community.
So, we're going to for food ways do
assessments and um education primarily
for this summer session into the fall
and build materials that we can deploy
early next spring. Buildings and Energy
is working on healthy neighborhoods and
so we are going to work on getting those
inventories completed for our
substandard homes and our underutilized
residential buildings and vacant lots.
We're going to work on finding funding
or seeking program collaboration around
critical home repair activities. We are
very interested in seeing that move
forward. We've submitted two grants as
you know in the past because you were
the primary applicant for both of those
grants, two EPA grants that the funding
was pulled back by the um the current
administration. And so we're going to
keep seeking that funding for critical
repair around um owner occupied homes
and you know substandard homes in our
community. You'll see that work plan
enterprise solutions and community
connections. We are actively looking to
identify how can we create a very fluid
fairfield feed for our community. How
can we get the information out? What is
the best way? And so we want to work
with um our media channels that exist,
our influencers that exist, our um our
promoters that exist, kind of identify
where they are, assess what they are
doing, who are they getting their reach
out to, what's been successful, get an
inventory built around that, try to
understand what other communities are
doing in that realm. You'll see the work
plan. There are each one of these
subcommittees have anywhere from 8 to 12
actions that are on their little work
plans actively right now. Uh we know we
got our our uh cans delivered last week.
So we've got a uh kicking the can out of
the landfill. That's a waste management
project for our waste management team.
We've sought funding to support the
print and um and the event insurance for
a workshop. We've I've learned how to
use the water bill stuffer and over the
last four weeks I've sent out over 4,000
um of these lovely inserts in the water
bill and we've got articles in the
source and in the union around how the
community can deal with those cans.
And
we also by um suggestion have been
pursuing nonprofit funding for the rack.
I'll update you on that next time we
meet. Thank you. Thank you.
Very well done. Right at five minutes.
So now everybody knows what the drill
is. And again, um I I can see a lot of
people have done some research. We
appreciate it. You spent some time here.
So um again, we're looking for new
information. And um so next up is James
Cinton.
Thank you. So, uh I live in Ward One and
as a lifetime ecologist, I recently
organized a detailed survey of the uh
health of Walton Lake and its immediate
surroundings. Uh contrary to the 1964,65
and 2002 reports, we found the lake to
be surprisingly healthy with a wide and
abundant spectrum of wildlife and plant
species, including one or more possibly
endangered muscles.
The 3-FFT deep water clarity supports
high levels of abundant biod diversity
indicating a healthy and stable
ecosystem
with water quality indicators including
native frogs, bass, clams, swans and
aquatic birds. All of them sensitive to
pollutants, turbidity and nutrient
overloads which are common in unhealthy
lakes. Their presence suggests the lake
maintains clean oxygen rich waters with
stable temperatures and pH conditions.
Biod diversity and food web integrity is
another one. The presence of top
predators, bald eagles, ospreys, bass,
insecttoaphores like bats, swallows, and
frogs, herbivores like geese and deer,
omnivores like raccoons and skunks, and
even carnivores, foxes and weasels,
points to a fully functioning and
layered food web around the lake.
Habitat diversity, aquatic vegetation,
emergent wetlands, riparian buffer
zones, and adjoining woodlands all
appear healthy, providing the structural
diversity needed to sustain this array
of wildlife.
Then low human disturbance, the
continued presence of shy and habitat
sensitive species like beavers, bobcats,
bald eagles and transient species like
trumpet or swans implies that the area
is relatively undisturbed by pollution,
excessive development or shoreline
modification.
The lake provides essential habitat to a
wide range of species across multiple
trophic levels and the environmental
conditions support sensitive species
known to be indicators of ecological
integrity and clean water. These healthy
lake indicators include, and this is
powerful, local stakeholders and
visitors who enjoy and celebrate the
lake's beauty. All the homeowners around
the lake, and many have lived there for
more than a decade, happily confirm
their ongoing appreciation and delight
in the lakes's health, as do golfers,
boers, and fishermen. This is an
established indicator of lake health.
Water clarity and naturally resolving
algaal blooms. Another indicator,
absence of fish kills or die-offs in the
lake for more than 25 years. presence of
healthy, possibly endangered native
muscle species on the lake bed among the
most threatened animals in existence
according to the Iowa DNR with Iowa
hosting nine endangered and six
threatened species.
Also, healthy populations of
non-invasive amphibian species, a key
indicator of lake health.
Five non-invasive species of fish,
especially the sensitive largemount bass
with small heads and large bellies,
indicative of good health, for which the
lake is famous across southeast Iowa.
All these point to excellent lake
health. 15 species of desirable native
mammals, including two species of bats,
are reported around the lake. This group
includes most of the wild mammal species
found in Jefferson County, indicating an
attractive, healthy local ecosystem.
At least four species of snakes,
including two water snakes, are observed
around and in the lake. At least two
species of turtle seen in and around the
lake, strongly indicate healthy lake
ecosystem. 16 species of water birds and
raptors are seen in and around the lake,
including the rare and very sensitive
osprey. Only recently restored after
becoming extinct in Iowa. The
restoration involved hundreds of
volunteers and last year only 47
fledglings were hatched across the whole
of the state and we have them there at
Walton Lake. Another rare bird at Walton
Lake is the green heron. 36 smaller
native bird species live around the
lake. This is a high percentage of all
the smaller bird species found in
Jefferson County.
So you can see that Walton Lake is
biologically rich and ecologically
stable and we're very grateful to you
for this opportunity to explore the
wonders of Walton Lake together. Thank
you. Great. Thank you, James. Appreciate
it.
test.
Hello.
So, and you can can you remind us which
ward you live in? One. You're in one?
Yeah. Are you on the lake? No. No. Okay,
great. I'm
so uh I was looking forward to that way.
Sorry. Oh, pardon. Never mind. Never
mind. I I was looking forward to sparing
us all another five-minute address until
nature or God threw a dead fish in my
path. The message to my nose was
unmistakable. So, I'm here to to deliver
it. Literally, I was walking along Mint
Boulevard one week ago when I found
myself gagging on the smell of kerrion.
I almost reversed course, but was
curious to know what creature was
producing this extraordinary stench. 100
ft later, I discovered a 10-in dead fish
buzzing with flies and emitting an
almost unbearable odor. Not 10,000 dead
fish in a drained lake, just one. The
creature likely dropped from the talons
of some raptor trying to escape a mob of
birds. I wonder what is the council's
plan and what is its budget for
remediating the wreak of countless
rotting carcasses or for locating local
homeowners during the time it takes for
these carcasses to decompose.
No one can be expected to spend weeks
stewing in sulfur and ammoniarich
compounds such as putricine,
cadaavverine, scattle and other volatile
chemicals typical of rotting fish and by
most accounts health. Also, city council
paints a picture of restoration which
seems to me to hold little water. At its
June 9th meeting, the DNR estimate for
restoring the lake was given at 15 to 20
years. with an estimate of 5 years until
the biology of the lake would support
successfully restocking its fish. One
week later at a committee meeting, that
estimate was dismissed as referring to
an improved lake rather than one
restored to mere current levels, and
there was palpable excitement about
restocking the fish as early as November
of this year. All concerns about the
time required to build up the lakes's
biology to levels where it could sustain
such fish were waved away with talk of
using the northern finger to maintain a
seed population of aquatic species with
which to reininoculate Walton Lake
proper. But common sense struggles to
keep pace with this fish tail. The
lake's watershed fingers are too shallow
to ensure survival of species trapped
there in the case of a hot dry spell.
Since the ecology of an oversized puddle
is different from the ecology of a lake
capable of sustaining desirable fish
species, expecting to use one ecological
niche to support another and jumpstart
it seems a stretch. Either way, has the
city budgeted for the cost of this Hail
Mary pass?
Nor is there evidence the city has
planned or budgeted for the costs of
restoring the lake to its current levels
of vitality, let alone the time and cost
required to improve it to whatever
standard is being used to justify
killing it today.
The cost of a full restoration,
typically in the millions of dollars and
lasting decades, requires community
awareness,
community support as much as 35%
and cost sharing via public private
partnerships.
Also, since the agency tasked with
overseeing such restoration has a long
wait list, it seems prudent to ensure
this phase is fully covered before
proceeding to drain the lake. Leaving it
all to chance, then invoking unforeseen
costs and crisis seems fiscally and in
every way irresponsible.
Last, Doug Reinard admitted that it is
nearly impossible to prevent
reintroduction of invasive species to
Iowa's lakes. Anyone managing natural
resources understands that the best
defense against invasives is a mature
ecosystem and that disrupting such an
ecosystem throws open the gate to
invaders. And yes, there will be
exceptional cases where a troubled lake
may lose its ability to handle invasive
species and may need to be drained. But
that is clearly not the case with Walton
Lake. Such decisions must be made with
care, with respect for the lives and
dignity of all whose lives are tied to
the lake and with proper assessments. No
such assessments or care have yet been
extended to Walton Lake as it and its
residents.
I do thank you for this opportunity to
address some of the issues which have
yet to be included in a proper cost
analysis for replacing the bridge over
Walton Lake. Thank you.
There's uh one separate spreadsheet
before the collected appendices in this
and I don't have enough for everybody
because my printer ran out of ink but
So, thank you so much for the
opportunity to speak again about Walton
Lake and trying to preserve it. I'm
Felicity and I'm one of the homeowners
around Walton Lake. We've contacted 36
so far and every single one has signed a
petition to stop the draining of the
lake which I have here. I wish you could
live on Walton Lake because then you
might understand why we see this as an
act of unnecessary destruction.
Morning mist curling off the water, bird
song filling the air. Moonlight dancing
across glassy waters. We are really
blessed to live in its beauty. If you
lived here, you would know it's not just
a place to live, but a place where time
slows and life deepens.
And this is why we moved there and why
we oppose your decision. Many of us are
retired and we want to spend our
remaining years enjoying the lake, not
living with a decimated one for years to
come.
Some of us, some of us, after all, it's
possible may be gone before the lake is
restored
and reestablished.
We've invested millions into our homes
collectively and contribute 230,000
a year in taxes.
We are stakeholders.
That none of you contacted us before
making this decision is quite a shocking
oversight to me. Out of all of its
impacts, this decision affects us most.
We understand that mistakes happen.
What's harder to understand is a refusal
to reconsider, even when new facts and
new perspectives emerge. There are,
after all, win-win solutions.
Let's tack now to the overlooked costs
the city may incur under the current
plan and how they compare to a practical
alternative that is significantly
cheaper.
Throughout this next section, my
statements refer to details you can find
in the spreadsheet and accompanying
appendices.
Reviewing the council's decision, it
appears it was based on an overstated
water depth. In truth, only a few feet
of water will remain after the specified
11.5 ft draw down. This severe volume
reduction will cause widespread fish
death, swarms of flies and other pests,
unbearable odors, ecosystem collapse,
and destroy the lakes's aesthetic and
recreational value for years.
Cleanup and odor suppression alone could
cost between 38 and $66,000.
This figure is based on data from
similar small fish uh small lake fish
kills. And once again, that's in the
documents I gave you for the uh
analysis. Lime and chemical treatments
can harm amphibians and insects,
reducing biodiversity
even after refilling.
And those same chemicals may be toxic to
us, the residents who live closest to
the lake. Has the city got insurance to
cover any medical liabilities in such
situations?
And if the smell makes our homes
unlivable, will the city cover
relocation costs? These alone could
amount to around 100,000 again on the
spreadsheet.
And there's more. The golf course
depends on lake water. Realizing this,
the city's last minute idea to tap a
nearby fire hydrant could total at least
6,000.
This figure includes connection fees and
a water cost of really is just an
estimate cuz I have no idea. let's say
onetenth of the retail valuable uh value
of creating potable water.
There's also a question of the impact on
our water pressure. Have these issues
been investigated?
There's some emails relating to that in
the also in the appendices. Even without
relocation, the estimated total for the
city's causeway co system now sits
around 285,000.
If relocation is needed, that could jump
to 385,000.
Why take this risk when a proven
alternative exists?
One, verified aluminum bridge 6t wide
and capable of carrying golf carts 88 ft
long, capable of reaching across easily,
costs 182,000 all up. This is 100,000
less than the current plan. It's built
to last. serves the golf's course golf
courses needs and doesn't require
draining the lake. This alternative was
submitted before any decision was
finalized and a basic investigation
would have shown its feasibility.
Why not choose a win-win solution that
benefits both city and the community?
Let's not use sunk costs as permanent
obstacles.
Spending 60,000 to exit a contract
shaped by incomplete and incorrect
information is better than overspending
by a 100,000 or more. Felicity, you
preserve I've just got two sentences.
You preserve the ecosystem and increase
council's good standing in the
community. We ask for an immediate
pause, a reassessment of alternatives,
and open consultation with stakeholders.
and I thank you so much for your service
here and having to deal with all of us
and and for your thoughtful
consideration. Thank you. Thank you.
Ed noise.
I want to thank everyone again. This has
been a quite the journey we've all been
on and amazing things have happened.
people that I never met before came
forward. We have these beautiful
relationships now. The love of the lake,
which you know, we're fearful of it
being gone. It what it's done is it's
shown how much more deeply we love the
lake and how much more deeply we care
about the animals and all the species.
So, there's been a lot of great things
and and I see a lot of really good
things coming out of all of this. I
still see that. Now, I did I did give
you some documents that I'm sure you've
looked at. I think it's clear that first
of all that we have a protected right to
speak against the policies of the city
council. That's a first amendment right
and it shouldn't be threatened against.
And I'll just stop there.
Um I know that we were Melanie was asked
to provide to the DNR the worst case
scenario if the lake was drained. So
that's when the second DNR permit a draw
down permit was issued.
The problem is there was significant
errors in that report and I think I have
that all because I've given you a copy
of that petition to the DNR. The second
petition the first petition failed to
even admit there was any latoral rights
to the land owners. So that was faulty
and then so then we filed had to file
the second one and that one claimed
there'd be 12 1/2 ft water left after
the lake lake was drained 11 1/2 ft.
That's another major error. I did do
some research. there is liability to the
city if errors of this nature are made
and you have 36 out of 36 homeowners
that have already said they're really
don't want to see this happen. So that's
just put in there for your review. Uh it
is true you have been given copies of
formal concepts of bridges that could be
used that are long enough and less
costly. So you have that. You can't say
you don't have it anymore.
Now, there's some actually really good
news that I want to talk about. Uh, I
gave you a document called the
advantages of holding off for now and
draining the lake, and I just want to
read it to you very quickly. Uh, Melanie
has stated publicly that they don't even
need to start draining the lake until
August 8th. They can fulfill the
existing contract with Dish and wait
until August the 8th.
This delay doesn't interfere with the
Dish contract fulfillments.
This delay would save 130,000 gallons of
treated water every day. This helps to
avoid depletion of the Jordan well,
which is extremely expensive as you
know. This also allows time for the DNR
to complete their due diligence and the
administrative review process.
It also allows homeowners to enjoy the
fullness and splendor of the lake during
this time frame.
It further allows time to confirm the
actual depth of the lakes and how much
water would remain if the lake is in
fact drained at 11 1/2 ft as planned.
Once it is confirmed what the actual
depth of the lake would be if it
drained, it can then be determined what
the actual environmental impact would be
to the fish, amphibians, and other lake
dependent species. We can't even say
that now because the information that's
been given has not been accurate.
Further would allow time to determine
the effect on the home on the
homeowners, the golf call course members
and the public.
Further, it would allow time for
interested citizens to more fully
research the likely cost of golf cart
bridges alternatives.
And it also would allow the homeowners
in the city to complete a a a request
for proposal on just the golf cart
alternatives. We are in a catch 22.
You we can't say what it is because the
request proposal hasn't been done. So
that could be done.
The main thing that I want to thank
Melanie for is an engineering report
that revealed the actual history of the
relationship between the city and the
Walton Club. So it was 1931 when the
first lease was entered into.
That lease lasted for 84 years. And
during that 84 years,
it was entirely the responsibility of
the golf club to maintain the bridge and
look after it, not the city. It wasn't
until 2015, only 10 years ago, that the
city assumed responsibility. The good
news is that 10-year contract is up in
December of this year. That provides us
with an opportunity to renegotiate
between the city and the golf club. The
city, obviously, the golf club has an
interest in getting a new lease. That's
clear. They want a new lease. The city
has an interest in getting rid of this
responsibility for this bridge. Here's
the idea. The city, a new lease would be
drafted. The city agrees to pay $134,000
only to the Walton Club toward a bridge
of their desire. The Walton Club agrees
to complete their own design, and that
would save the city $100,000.
Dish, who's a member of the golf club
from everything I've been told. I only
take one more second if I could. Uh,
I've been told is a wonderful uh,
reasonable man who's very chilled out
and he's a member of the golf club.
I believe that the golf club would be
very happy to talk to Thresh about this
their new idea that's going to make them
happy and everyone else happy. And he'd
say, "Fine, I'll just do the work on the
new project." So the only thing that
we're missing is the authority to
negotiate with the lease. I suggested
that John Morsy could negotiate this
lease and he said he hasn't doesn't have
the authority. So if we could merely
consider giving John the authority to
negotiate a new lease, which has to
happen anyway
because the December 25's coming up, we
can see what might happen. It might
solve everyone's problems. Save the city
$100,000.
Remove all of this. One more thing, the
homeowners and this committee have
already raised about a third of the
money beyond the 134. We would agree to
raise the rest of the funds for the golf
club, which means the golf club gets it
for free. They get the bridge of their
choice for free. They get a new lease.
The city saves $100,000.
That's the idea and I would just like
for John to be able to pursue that.
That's all I'm asking. Okay. Thank you,
Ed. Appreciate that. Um,
so
I just would like to make one point
really clear that we've repeated several
times is and we we know the numbers that
have come with this bridge. However, I
will say that it has been our engineers
um
talking point that no matter what bridge
we put in, we may have to lower the lake
to put those peers in. Otherwise, we
have to understand
the what sinking there would be, you
know, how much silt is there. So,
you know, again, I'm not an engineer.
I'm kind of repeating. So, this idea
that we just you just don't have to
lower the lake at all, I'm not sure is
accurate. And I know you people, several
of you believe that is the case, that
you can just put it in. And um but we
don't know that that really at this
point is the God's truth. So, just a
little thing that I want to mention that
seems to be, you know, a difference of
opinion, but um again, that's that's not
my specialty. So, um, appreciate it. Uh,
John, um, before
I mean, I I'd like to hear from the
council if that's something they want
to, uh, number one, either give you
authority to do, start talking about
that lease. Um, I would like to say that
I think we are looking at and, um,
the delay process. I mean, we have been
talking about it at city hall and a
conversation has not been had yet with
Durish, but it's it's not off the table.
Let's just say that. And uh looking at
timelines. So, um John, do you want to
speak to some of the points that have
been here general tonight
uh before we go on to Ed Hip? Yeah, I uh
first of all, I want to say that sort of
going backwards on this, Ed alludes to
threats about his right to speak before
us. We've had four meetings in a row
where I haven't seen anybody deprived of
free speech in the sense that this
council has ever allowed public forum.
So, I think that's a bunch of horse
feathers. Uh, as far as Ed coming here
and telling us that uh the city um is
ignoring fact, uh the city uh from the
very first of these meetings uh tried to
present the situation that the public
record supports. Uh there's a 12page
attachment to the things that were done
for the council when we were talking
about the first two sessions. Uh that
has to do with the abstract of title out
at Walton. Um also as far as the way Ed
has represented the group, uh he's an
effective speaker. I don't take anything
away from Ed. I've known him as a
colleague for probably 35 years. But the
other side of that, Ed, is you've been
representing in your emails that you're
not doing any of this as a lawyer. And
it sure looks to me like you're doing it
as a lawyer. Even though you're not
licensed as a lawyer and you're not
insured as a lawyer, you've been
representing on your emails, which are
on Noise Law Office Stationary about
half the time that you're doing this as
a single person, but then you're here
representing 35 lake house owners as far
as I know. So, there's a contradiction
in there very clearly. Uh secondly, uh
in the last few days, the city's
received a sevenpage draft lawsuit from
you, which is something that lawyers do.
So if you're not here as a lawyer, don't
hand us seven pages of litigation. I
mean that, Ed. It's just not I respond.
Yeah. No, you can't.
You're making a public presentation
here, and I should be able to respond.
Well, no, this isn't a debate, Ed. This
is my chance to say something and it
deserves to be said as far as why these
meetings are going to go on pro probably
again and again into the future. Uh and
as far as some of the stuff that's been
misrepresented to the public here, it
needs to be sorted. uh as far as I'm
concerned why all these people have a
belief and been made to feel that the
lake is going to be gone. Uh that is
just not true. And I don't think DNR
would say anything different to us as
far as that lake
going on into another year or two not
being restored to the lake that people
look out in the morning over coffee. It
may not be the same lake ecologically
for a while, but also I' I've been a fan
of the lake for 50 years. Uh, and a lot
of the ecological stuff that Mr. Cinton
talked about tonight. Um, we all know
that. But I also know the water snakes,
they're going to go over behind the
second causeway. They're still going to
be out on the lake even if the lake was
bone dry. The shorebirds are going to go
up to the fingers. those animals that
live out there, they're not going to go
very far. A lot of the ecology is still
going to be there. So, you know, I don't
want to have uh the mis uh understanding
that DNR uh for some reason is
completely out of the loop on this. I
think DNR has considered that going
forward. And I think that as far as our
engineer, uh she's been in communication
with DNR a number of times. Uh, I've had
the opportunity of conversations with
DNR. Our city administrators had
opportunities for that. But right now,
what is being ignored is what I have
been expressing since the beginning
public forums for this. Every one of the
homeowners out there, they got an
abstract title to a new subdivision that
the city created to resolve something
with DNR that needed to be resolved.
reference was made to the reports of
water quality back in the uh mid60s and
also in 2002 I believe it was which were
not positive reports and the city did
the subdivision to satisfy that. So if
Mr. Sinton doesn't feel that those
reports were accurate, I'll respect his
opinion uh as far as him saying that.
But at the same time, the reason you
have a subdivision out there is because
the DNR didn't think so and the city
council didn't think so. And when we
fixed this so that you could have a
subdivision with beautiful location and
beautiful homes, it would work going
into the future for generations. this
council and all the past councils have
always believed in that lake and that's
being missed as a point in this whole
thing. Every one of your abstractive
titles shows that the city has always
owned the lake and the city except for
the control and dominion that DNR has
over them, the city has always made the
decisions about the lake. Other than
that, there's also a large easement
around the entire lake that allows the
city always access for purpose of
dealing with it for what it is. It was
built man-made. It's not a natural lake.
It was built as a surface water storage
facility for part of our reservoir
system for portable water. It still is,
but it's not used that way right now.
It's a sitting body of water, and
there's nothing wrong with that being a
beautiful sitting body of water, but
it's still subject to DNR monitoring.
So, make no mistake, DNR is still in the
picture always on this and the city
treats it as a part of an asset called
the water utility. So when we talk about
it and who should make the decisions,
every time we've had somebody at the
podium uh that questions something like
that, I asked him, don't you think this
is a decision ultimately for the city
council to make? And I still believe
that to this day and I think it's a very
defensible position. Uh, as far as the
abstract of title, they also for every
one of the homeowners out there, you
have a group of multi-pages
of covenants concerning what you can and
cannot do in the lake. You cannot put a
dock in the lake. You cannot uh swim in
the lake. you are doing things that DNR
frowns on any place where there's a
reservoir that has the potential for
being part of a water system. Uh, and
you know that's should be common sense
and should be obvious to all of us. And
I don't think any of us are troubled by
the idea that maybe you can't swim in
it. And maybe DNR at the time that we
did this back at at the subdividing uh
approved the covenants as being
consistent with their requirements for
the lake being kept pristine. Uh and
that lake right now as far as the
quality of the water in it, you'll get a
variety of opinions all the way from
worst case scenario that it's full of
under the surface tangled vegetation
that thrives because of sunlight and
some of the green algae bloom that isn't
so green and isn't so good. Uh and other
kinds of things that are in the water
that make the water less than pristine.
Uh, I don't think DNR is going to give
you the same glowing report that u uh
Mr. Sentin did. And I don't think that
DNR is going to be troubled if there's
some adjustments in the level of the
lake that ultimately result in parts of
the lake having to be restored. Uh, but
that's just my opinion from being around
for 35 years and watching this every
year with DNR over our shoulder. At
times we had threats by DNR that we were
going to be fined $10,000 a day. That
would have been just as unpopular to our
taxpayers as
anything else that's come up in these
hearings the last four times we've had
them. So, believe me, I'm not trying to
beat up on people that have gotten out
there and enjoyed the view, enjoyed the
new home site, helped us with the cost
of things that were done back in 2000 to
2005 to make that the place that it is.
You got a new bridge, you got a new
central water system, you got a new u
central u septic or sewer system. Uh,
and all of that's going to last for
generations. So is the lake. Nobody said
anything from this council. Nobody said
anything from the engineering standpoint
of that lake being gone tomorrow or gone
any anything like longterm. So I think
that's a major deception that's been put
on some of you as far as losing your
lake. I think it's unfair. I think it's
distortioned. I think it's something
also that leads me to one other thing I
want to say and that is that we had an
engineering effort by both our city
engineer who is very competent contrary
to people uh attacking her when they
didn't have any other fact to throw at
her uh about uh her skills and her
competence. And we had a second
engineering opinion on this from a
recognized long-term firm that's worked
with the city as far as that same water
project out uh at Walton. Uh and the
ongoing water purposes related to that
lake. Uh they both uh to some extent
misjudged the level of drainage that
would take place.
Regardless of that, as far as whether
that's outcome determinative about the
lake or not, when the lake can be easily
uh worked on, the lake can be easily
restored over a period of time. Um there
are different experiences around this
county out in the agricultural community
every year where dams are broken out,
water bodies are rebuilt, water bodies
are refilled, DNR restocks them, and
there is no reason to doubt that on a
larger scale that wouldn't be the
experience at Walton Lake. If you go
over to Lake Geode, you'll see that
there was a lake drain 2019
right in the middle there was COVID.
They went back to it and they reopened
it in 2023 and you have a beautiful
restored lake over there with good
fishing in it. There's no reason to
think that couldn't be Walton and
there's no reason to think that Walton's
going to be lost uh at any point in the
future. The council's still fully behind
the lake. The situation as far as the
control of the lake has to stay the way
it is in your property titles. You are
owners of beautiful light uh lakeside
lots that look out on a lake that is
actually owned by the city, maintained
by the city for purposes other than a
recreational lake, but which happens to
have the the beautiful additions to its
usefulness that includes recreation and
just plain aesthetics. So, as far as the
lake itself, uh, there isn't anybody in
this room that doesn't want the best for
the lake. Uh, and I'm tired of hearing
about somebody saying that, uh, we're
destroying the lake. Uh, this thing is
still a situation where I think if you
had DNR at the podium right now, they
would say that this will more likely
than not be an improved lake by the time
we're all done with this project. So, I
want to be clear about that. As far as
the council putting me in a position of
authority to negotiate anything, I
negotiate every week, every month, and
so forth. But part of the reason that I
told Mr. Noise, I don't have the
authority to do that is some of this is
stuff that the council really can't
delegate away. That's the other reason I
don't have the authority for it. And
that is that the council has to make the
ultimate decisions about property that
the city owns. And that's not a rare
concept. It would get the city in
trouble if they tried to do some things
differently than they're supposed to do
it in this situation. I know Mr. Noise
referred to a catch22 as far as getting
around some things like the RFP. Uh RFP
is a request for proposals as far as
what what things are going to cost. The
city can't avoid doing the bidding
process that it has to go through. It
can't avoid going through the open
meetings required notices that happen
every time the city meets. And it can't
avoid the bidding processes that went on
as far as the actual bid that was
allowed in the contract we accepted. And
the city uh is very much in an awkward
position as far as in any way reneging
on a contract that's already signed. I
have to defend the city if they're sued
for that. But I also can tell you one
more thing about this and that is that
if uh the sevenpage litigation document
that uh was presented us last week were
to be filed in district court, it would
open the floodgates for things against
you that you haven't been told by the
man who is presenting it but says he's
not doing it as a lawyer. What you're
going to look at then is we don't have
any control over the contractor uh who
will be breached. He's got his own
rights to his own representation and his
own claims as far as that contract being
in many ways damaged or interfered with.
That's not an unrealistic assessment.
That's the type of case that I've been
in court uh many times in the past as
far as interference with contracts.
Another part of this has to do with the
situation where uh you as individual
owners uh you want to make a deal with
the city, but right now as I look at it,
you are what Mr. Noise would
characterize as a loosely organized
group of owners with stakes in this
thing. You are a loosely organized group
of owners. And part of the problem with
that is none of you probably are
prepared or insured or represented to
the point where if you become cross
claimments or crossdefendants
or counter claimants or
counterdefendants,
do you want this coming at you
individually? That is probably where the
benefit to you would be if you were a
homeowners association or you had an
organization that could stand up and
speak for you and ensure you and defend
you. So, I'm telling you that as a
friend, I don't want to be in a position
where you get picked on individually and
I don't think any of you have had that
drilled into you at this point. So, from
my perspective, that's about as much as
I'm going to say right now, except that
the city uh they're perfectly uh capable
of deciding if they want me to
negotiate. And I'm perfectly capable, I
think, of seeing the different ways this
could work. I think what you're probably
going to do is get part way where you
want to be. I'm hopeful you don't file
litigation and Mr. Noise doesn't pull
the trigger on what he's put in our lap.
I'm also hopeful that you listen as we
go forward because there are other parts
of this that have to do with other
people's money, other people's programs
for doing things like the lake
restoration, the lake restocking, the
other things that have to do with the
lake uh resuming uh being a highquality
lake. Uh and all of that can happen uh
even with a bridge that the council
chooses as its bridge instead of your
bridge. Uh the council's still perfectly
within its rights to decide to build a
much different a much higher strength a
much better dur enduring bid bridge than
a cart bridge. It won't be wrong of the
council to do that any more than it was
wrong for the council to do a bigger
bridge on the spillway dam uh when the
20 uh or excuse me 2002 to 2005
subdividing was being done out there.
That bridge turned out to be exactly
what you needed. My suspicions are that
going forward we may not have a crystal
ball right now, but you'll be glad you
did more on this instead of less on this
and the lake will be fine. Uh in the
end, nobody wants the lake uh to be gone
and nobody uh really wants there to be
any litigation. So, uh be clear about
that. And I'm more than happy to talk
with any of you about this individually
or to negotiate with a group of you or
decide exactly what your standing and
position is as a body of homeowners. But
at this point, um, we still have some
situations that would put you over a
barrel. Uh, regardless of whether the
city has some liability in this, the
other side of the case puts you in an
awkward situation, too. I don't think
that's been explained to you enough. So,
from that standpoint, I don't want to
pull any triggers on the other side. If
the city has to defend a litig a
litigation, I'd rather be sitting and
talking about something that's a
mediated uh resolution of all of this. I
think the council would be delighted if
there were some uh inetweens as far as
some of this, but the council cannot
delegate its authority to you and the
council cannot not make the choice about
what to do with the property it owns out
there. Council still owns the lake. The
abstract still says that the easements
and so forth are binding uh and that the
covenants are binding. So, I'm going to
just keep coming back to that every time
there's a discussion. Uh, and frankly,
uh, at this point, uh, I'm looking at
many of you and you've heard enough. Uh,
that's not where I want this thing to
end, though. Uh, there's more to be said
and the council's got an opportunity to
say it next, but I want to be very clear
about what the legal posture is on this
that I see. So, I've said enough. I hope
it was clear. I'm not trying to frighten
any of you as far as your positions as
homeowners. I think you're all uh very
much beneficiaries of something that was
the best intentions of the council back
when the subdivision was done. It's been
a pleasure to watch the subdivision turn
into what you live in. Uh and it it'll
be just as good a lake after this
project as going into this project.
That's what I believe. All right. So,
and and I just want to say that I do
believe the council hears you and I
think they understand that if we could
push this project back a little bit.
It's good for the golf course.
It's good for the people who live there.
So, um if you'll please be patient while
we work through this. And you know,
council, I I
was thinking maybe the uh
the um lease could start be worked on by
the property committee while we're in
this process. Is that something that you
would like to move forward? At this
point, we should start looking at it as
soon as possible and we don't have much
time, so December will come up very
quickly. May I ask a question though?
Like even if we work on the lease and
even if we are no longer responsible for
maintaining the bridge, if we own the
lake, what is our liability there? I
mean, if we Yeah, that's my question. I
don't know. And I and I think that's
something that needs to be hashed out
and I would suggest we do it in the
property committee. Um my
guess or my best guess and I did talk to
Mr. noise last night about about the
history of the lake and um you know an
educated guess was that in 2015 Walton
Club was probably in a more lean year
and it was getting difficult for them
financially and and they saw that bridge
getting older and they really don't have
the money to maintain it and so that's
why probably came to the city and
Melanie's going to say something go
ahead and then I also thought that
because the lake belongs to the city
that anything on top of that lake should
belong to the city. So I figure
liability is part of it too but I think
that should be flushed out but maybe
maybe you have the answer Melanie could
someone explain why the one club has
insurance on the bridge and a liability
associated with that insurance if we're
responsible. Um so a couple things that
the um state the
statement about the um change in the
lease uh that was something that was
very obvious to me and I found
interesting. Um
um unless anyone was on the council at
that time and want and wants to
understand the reasoning or remembers
the reasoning. Uh one possible possible
explanation is because the roads were
dedicated at the time and that the
statement as far as the city taking
ownership of all of the roads and
bridges
might not have been intended to
incorporate this bridge at all. But
because of the language, we can't
determine whether it was intended to at
all because when the things get annexed
into the city, the roads become the
cities. And so the word bridge was
probably added in there because of the
bridge over the spillway. And that was
very it was a very hot topic when the um
subdivision came about. Um so that is
also a theory. um this could be an
unintended consequence of annexing the
area. Um the other thing I want to point
out is when the
um whether we as we negotiate the this
came to
city hall by the board. Um and at the
time the board did not realize that the
city had responsibility for this at all.
They actually called it and wanted me to
set up a meeting with the economic
development committee to see if there is
any way they could get lost funds or any
sort of city contribution to help them
pay for the the um the bridge. And so,
uh before I sent it off to the economic
development committee, I thought, well,
and Doug and I, Doug Brainer and I
talked about it and said, well, what
does the lease say? And that's when we
discovered, oh, it's our responsibility,
not theirs. So, you know, that could
answer the question as to why they carry
the liability insurance. They thought
they had the responsibility. So, there
are a lot of things that um up until
2015, that's the way it had always been
done. And come 2015, maybe the lease
never got changed or the insurance
policy never got changed. Things like
that that had just been renewed year
after year. I can't necessarily answer
that, but those are some theories. So,
um, regardless of, um, I just want to
bring that perspective that the board
was asking us for some assistance
regardless, um, on how we move forward.
When did the board ask? Um, when it
first came to us like in April of last
year, property committee over a year
ago. Well, before before I brought it to
property committee, the board had come
to me saying, "Hey, can we meet with
economic development about getting some
sort or ways and means about getting
some lost money or something like that?"
This is approximately April last year.
Mhm. Yeah. It was the very first contact
that I had with the board.
So, council, would you be open to moving
this situation, moving the lease and
start talking about past history and
moving forward and and in the meantime,
we'll, you know, we keep working on
we're waiting on DNR permit and working
on possibly a delay here a little bit.
Um,
so we have more water out there for the
golf course and residents can enjoy
through the summer.
Um anyway, so that that's just an idea
that we go ahead and move that and start
looking at it and working out it. I'd
move that we send it property committee.
It should go to the property committee.
Property committee. Yeah. Okay. Is there
a second? Okay. Moved by SD, second by
Florenoi to move the Walton lease
to the property committee. Any
discussion?
Uh hearing none, please call a roll.
Estie, yes. Senoy, yes. Two Hill. Yes.
Gandandy. Yes. Kess. Yes. Road. Yes.
Great. Thank you. And oh yes. So I do
have a question. So what does that mean
in terms of the process that there is a
contract signed with construction at
this point? What happens to that? So
this is just the lease, not anything to
do with the bridge or the contract or
any of that. So I think there's going to
be some discussions with Dish about time
frame because we're waiting we're
waiting anyway on the DNR permit. So,
um, there'll just be more discussions
and we'll keep you informed as things
move forward. Um, we do have, just to
let people know, we I hate to call you
guys out in the back of the room, but we
do we do have a couple DNR
representatives. Do you want to share
anything uh tonight from what you've
heard or
Chad Dolan? I'm the district fisheries
management. You want to come up and at
least introduce yourself? Come on up,
Tyler.
make yourselves known. Okay, so use the
mic, but uh Chad Dolan, district
fisheries management biologist.
Tyler Stubs. I'm the community fisheries
biologist for the state out of De Mo.
Okay. So, I've, as you know, I've had uh
a lot of discussions uh with you, Doug.
But, um anyway, uh you know, there's a
lot of questions about damaging the
ecology of the system and and whatnot.
Um certainly, you know, we drain water
and we drain 11 ft. You know, as I've
said and I've been honest with you, I
mean, especially if this happens in the
summer, we could have uh dead fish. I
mean that's absolutely probably going to
happen. However, you know what I've uh
discussed with folks is how to go about
doing that draw down effectively so that
we draw that water down gradually. Um
and you know uh it just kind of makes
sense that fish are going to move with
the receding water, right? And if they
move with receding water, uh, we can
minimize the depth of fish, especially
if we're able to maintain a pool 8 to 12
ft deep. Um, which is what we've
discussed. Now, I'll fully acknowledge,
you know, and I' I've been honest about
this. We do not know what the depth of
the lake looks like now simply because
there has been sediment deposition over
time. Uh, that is a reality and it's a
fact, you know. So, is there some risk
involved? um and not knowing exactly
what that depth is. Well, sure there is.
You know, um worst case scenario, it's
not as deep as you are thinking. Um and
we have more fish died. Is that the
worst thing in the world that could
happen? Um what I can show in some of
those papers that fell on the floor,
what that is is fish data. We're
datadriven agency, scientifically
collected data. Data dating back to
1967.
Um, last survey was conducted in 2002 is
just looking. It's about every 20 years
that we've been in there. Why why the
long delays? We don't have very good
access, right? It's hard for us to get
in there. We need tractors, you know,
multiple people, a small army in order
to get in. else we would be in there
more frequently. But despite only being
able to monitor it and survey it about
every 20 years, what we can see over
that time span is degradation
um resulting from sedimentation nutrient
input. Uh the introduction of aquatic
invasive species and they're there
common carp is one, big mouth buffalo is
another. they are causing damage to the
system and those were two species that I
didn't hear mention what kind what kind
of damage do they cause the system so
common carp is a species that is a
bottom feeder and essentially it's going
to rot around in the sediment uh it's
going to resuspend that sediment and
that's going to add to cloudy water or
what we term is turbidity why is that a
problem because all your desirable sport
fishes like your largemouth bass your
bluegills etc
are sight feeders. They've got to be
able to see in order to feed
effectively.
And we know uh via the data that they
are not feeding effectively. In fact, um
we have indices that help us measure
whether a fish is in good condition or
not. And we know that largemouth bass
and bluegill are species that are not in
good condition. I would term them as
starving a little bit at this point
probably because they're not effective
at capturing their food or their prey.
You mean in Walton Lake? You mean in
Walton Lake? Yes. Yeah. So, um yeah,
it's it in my mind, you know, I'm going
to be honest with you again, like we we
have a lot of fish data. Do we have
information specifically about things
like sediment depth? Do we know how much
sediment or faucculent loose sediment we
have in the upper reaches of the lake?
We do not. That's something where if we
had access, we would be able to tell it.
You said there was a second. There's two
invasive species. The second is big
mouth buffalo. Okay. Okay. That one's a
little bit different in that it's a
plank,
but why that's an issue is essentially
that particular species is is going to
feed on plankton which is a food source
for a lot of our young sport fishes. So
in turn, if you've got a big bodied
species and big mouth buffalo get very
large are consuming those plankton. They
are taking it from, you know,
essentially small sport fishes that
critically depend on it when they're
very little. It's not there. If it's not
there, they starve to death.
Essentially, those fish don't what we
call recruit very well. So, you know,
maybe they make it to juveniles, maybe
they don't. If they do, do they make it
to adulthood and really become part of
the the population, part of that healthy
population? What are sport sport fishes?
Exactly. Four fishes would be the things
that people like to capture or catch. So
largemouth bass, bluegills, crappies. It
depends on where you are. Walton Lake
doesn't have them, but you know, other
places, muskies, you know, walley. So,
anything like that that people really
desire to go out and and catch. Chad,
can you clarify the sediment is probably
why we didn't know the levels of the
lake accurately. Like the reason the the
the levels were so inaccurate is because
there's so much sediment that has come
off of the
uh off the landscape. So no, that's
that's a good question. So where is the
sediment coming from? Well, off the
landscape, you know, um human activity,
right? So uh we are all building things.
Um you know, we're a highly agricultural
state. There's lots of things occurring
in in the what we call the watershed or
the land that drains into the lake
essentially, right? And that has been
happening. The lake is 101 years old.
And that's that alone should should kind
of, you know, raise a red flag. I mean,
this was a man-made small empowerment.
That's what it is, you know, and and it
looks awesome and we get some excellent
recreation. It's been used for, you
know, water in the past, etc. But you
know small empoundments they don't last
forever especially as that human
activity ran when you said small
empoundments. Empowerment. Yeahments.
Empowerment. So what that means is okay
uh we probably had a natural gully or
valley right. So we built the dam. So in
in essence we impounded water. So as
water ran from the waterhed it got
stopped by the dam. Mhm. Okay. and that
basically backed up and filled up the
lake. So, do you have a plan at all to
come and check the quality of the lake
or Yes. Do we have a plan? Um, is that
on your schedule at this point? Well,
it's it's uh tenatively on the schedule,
you know, barring the ability to access
the lake. So, and that's one thing, you
know, I talked to a few folks about this
is, you know, we've got a 21 ft aluminum
plate boat, right? and you know um with
equipment you know in order to shock
fish. I don't know if any of you are
familiar with that activity but that's
how we collect fish. We get out there u
we put electricity in the water we stun
the fish they float up and or even swim
towards us and then we're able to
collect them a lot easier. So as you can
imagine uh it's pretty heavy boat loaded
down with generator and equipment in
order to do that dip net multiple people
etc etc. So essentially, we need a
pretty decent ramp in order to get in.
It doesn't necessarily have to be
concrete, but you know, a nice granular
ramp uh wide enough to allow us to get
in and out. And then the other critical
thing would be once we do uh get into
the lake, if we've got to back out 150
ft in order to hit deep water, that's
problematic for us. We need, you know, a
slope that will allow us to float that
boat in order to launch it as well.
What? Tell us a little bit more. What do
you fish about that requirement? The
ramp. Yes. Yes. What kind What kind of
slope would it need? Um, you got any
idea what it would be? 13%. 13%. That's
what I would say. 13. I've seen them
anywhere 13 to 16% grade. 16's getting a
little steep. The city's actually You're
building one right now or just got done
at Pleasant Lake, right? Yes. Yep.
Pleasant. And then you improved the one.
Well, Bonnetfield is where they built
it. Okay. It's pleasant. They improved
what you had. My question then is if we
could build that ramp for you? Yes.
Could you when would you be available to
do your survey, your fish survey, and
map the bottom of the lake? Best case
scenario, if you were to build it, we
could probably get in by fall. Now,
obviously, I'm sorry, when? Fall. Fall.
Fall. Can you be more specific than
that? Depends.
Not a specific day and time. How long it
will take us to build? September,
October. Yeah, I would say September,
October, but most likely probably
October. And And the issue being, okay,
like you could build it for me tomorrow.
Wouldn't be the best time to go find
fish, right? I mean, it's awful darn
hot, right? You know, and that that is
something that we do have to take into
consideration. If it stays hot like
this, then we pretty much shut down fish
monitoring activities because we don't
want to be detrimental to the
population.
So fall I think is is a reasonable time
frame that gives you a lot of time and
obviously that would be a time of year
that you know would be desirable to us
and the fish would appreciate it.
So if if we didn't do the draw down till
much later yes than August, right? You
could potentially get in there and do
your initial surveys this fall and we
could do the draw down afterward if that
was something that worked for you. Yeah,
sure. Well, we don't know yet, but it's
it's just an idea that is out there.
Right. Right.
Well, and people talk about smell, the
benefit of doing like a draw down later
in the fall in the winter is, you know,
you wouldn't have decomposing fish. But
I would say this, I mean, people that
were wondering about that, you know,
fish decompose very quickly. You know,
especially in heat like this, I would
say smallbodied fish, 3 days, they're
going to be gone for all intents and
purposes. Bigger body fish might stick
around a little bit longer, but not a
whole lot longer, especially, you know,
in in the conditions that we're dealing
with now. The smell, I mean, even if we
didn't have a dead fish, got to be
honest, it's going to smell. And that's
simply because things have been decaying
in Walton Lake as well as all the other
lakes in town, you know, forund 100
years, right? And you're going to have
muck on the bottom and it is going to
smell. Well, how long will it last?
Well, till it kind of dries on the top.
I told a few folks, I mean, it could dry
on top, but don't be fooled. Don't go
walking on the lake.
You know, we don't have an idea how much
sediment is out there, but what I can
attest to throughout my career, I worked
in backwater lakes. You know, for
instance, in the Mississippi River, we
had tools in order to measure the depth
of of soft or fauculent sediment. I can
tell you in places it was easily, you
know, a meter deep. So, you know, over 3
ft and perhaps, you know, more. Um I can
remember uh you know situations where if
you were to jump in you probably go up
to your chest. So um but I mean there
are some good things happening at
Walton. You got Walton Road acts as a
roadway dam. So basically any sediment
that's coming in down that arm is going
to hit that dam and you know most likely
it's going to settle out and it'll have
adhered nutrients that settle out as
well which is a good thing. That means
that you know most of the stuff coming
into the lake, a lot of it has been
settled out in that basin and it's not
making the main lake. Does that mean
none of it is? No, that that doesn't
mean that. The other issue is that that
arm in particular,
there's a good possibility that it's
filled to essentially capacity. Um, you
know, once it fills up, it stops doing
its job as effectively, right? So, you
know, I don't know what we've got there.
That's something we got to find out. Do
we have 2 ft of water, a foot of water
left? I don't know. We've got water. I
can tell you that for sure. Back in
2002, we did a survey. Uh, at that
point, they said it probably wasn't more
than a couple feet deep up there. That
was 23 years ago, you know, so who knows
what it is today. Now, the same thing
could be happening happening in that
east and northeast finger. You've got
another uh like golf cart causeway or
what I would call an in silt dam but it
is also working to your advantage and it
is trapping sediment and nutrients
behind it as well you know so um
like we always say you know like today
we build those kind of things on purpose
but at lake okay can you address that
question with regard to the location of
the present the the expired bridge if if
a covert system went in there. Yes. What
would be the advantages and
disadvantages with regard to the larger
lake? Okay. So, you know, right now we
have a small connection there and if if
the culverts are installed, I saw the
plan. Um, we would have a connection.
Certainly, we'd have water exchanging,
but um, you know, just being upfront and
honest with you again, you know, it's
still it still reduces connectivity. You
know, ideally there just wouldn't be
anything there at all. That would be the
best case scenario. Now, I realized that
that may not be possible, but that would
be the best case scenario because Tyler
and I uh we did a tour, you know, I took
him around. He hadn't been here in a
long time. His office is in De Moine,
but went around the lake. It's just it's
it's compartmentalized. And some of
those compartments are doing us a lot of
good, right? A lot of good for the lake.
the two I talked about, they're acting
as sediment catchment. You know, how is
that functioning now? Um, well, it gets
people across the lake a lot quicker for
sure. Um, but I think is, you know, the
the arm behind Walton Road fills up,
that sediment's got to go somewhere.
Okay. So, it's going to come through the
cover. It's probably going to hit that
next, you know, dam system. Maybe it
doesn't stop as much as if it were a
complete levy, so to speak, but it's
still going to slow the movement of
water down and allow sediment and
nutrients to settle out. So, what will
happen that particular area behind
north that dam Yeah. to the north is
going to fill up net and so that might
be need to be dredged more frequently.
Yes. And it might need to be dredged
more fre. Now, if you get to the main
basin of the lake, do we have sediment
deposition? I would say probably. So, is
it going to be as much as those upper
reaches? Probably not. You know, and a
lot of times when we've done lake
restorations, you mentioned geode. Um,
we didn't move it all all that sediment
out of the main basin. What we did was
reutilize it, you know, push it up into
mounds and build fish habitat out of it,
put rock on it. Depends on what we're
dealing with. Some of it might be too
soft. some of it might be perfect for
those sort of start. Okay, so here's a
tough question from an ecological point
of view. Which is the better model to
move across uh body of water causeway or
a bridge with nothing obstructing
underneath? In my mind, um because you
have protection, you know, from Walton
Road and your other cross levy, I would
say, you know, a a bridge or a structure
that would not obstruct the connection
of water. get the flow of water,
exchange of water in this case, not
really necessarily flow but a little
bit. You know, you're getting flow in
from the wershed that is draining into
the lake, but make no mistake, it's not
flowing like a creek or river, right?
So,
okay, especially during heavy rain
event. Let's uh thank you so much for
explaining some of those things.
Appreciate it.
A lot of good information. And um yeah,
do you have something that you want to
say? Last thing. Yeah, last thing. I can
just uh my role with this with cities,
dealing with cities, figure out how to
pay for it. So I'm the one that will
help you get grants and find grants and
work with you with media and marketing
and that kind of stuff with what
everything Chad's in. So great. That's
what my role will be. So I'm sure we'll
be having more questions and more
discussions. All right. Thank you. Okay.
Wow, lots of more information, gang. So,
um, let's try to, you know, we've got
quite a bit of business, so let's try to
wrap up these last two very quickly. Uh,
and before we move on, can we just
address one question, one issue? Yes.
So, this conversation about a discussion
between the city and the Walton Club,
I'm interested in hearing the
conversation, seeing what is being
proposed. So, could we allow that to
take place anyway?
You mean Ed what Ed was talking about?
Yeah.
Well, I mean it's not binding. It's just
a conversation and we'll hear what they
have to say and see if anything comes of
it.
I'm not sure what you're asking and
when. Yeah, I mean we'll just have the
conversation that uh John Morsy and Ed
Noise were talking about when we could
put it on the uh for the next
No.
Uh not here. Just saying. You say Walton
Club. Are you talking Walton? You're
talking property. Are you talking the
Walton? Property committee could do it.
I guess that makes sense. Property
committee. So we will listen to the
proposal from the Walton or Ed. Who's
making this proposal? You or the Walton
Club or talking enough together? All
right. We'll just can we have that
conversation? But obviously needs to get
communicated to the Walton Club. The guy
speak up. Obviously it has to get
communicated to the Walton, right? Have
they do they know about this before?
Well, that's why we're not interfering.
All right. I'm just trying to understand
what happened, what didn't happen, and
who knows what and when and where. Okay.
All right. So, property committee will
look at that, too. I guess be on our
agenda. Okay. Okay. So, so just to be
clear, yeah, what are we putting on our
agenda? You tell me. Tell me
specifically. So, we're look at the
lease. So, we I know we're going to look
at the lease, but what else are we
talking about? And uh Ed has suggested a
different bridge. Well, he what he wants
to do is my understanding, correct me if
I'm wrong, is have one club take over
responsibly for that bridge. Isn't that
what we're talking about with the lease?
Yeah. Okay. And but then he also
suggesting that let the Warden Club
decide on the model and the city will
only put $134,000 in to that cost and
and the water club would pick up the
balance. Gotcha. So, that is the
proposal. If they're interested, we
might as well hear what they have to
say. That's all I'm saying. It's not
binding or anything like that. Okay. So,
let's let's move on to Mr. Ed Hip. Ed,
you got five minutes. Can you do it in
three?
Gotcha.
Can Ed. Ed, I need you to come to the
microphone. Yeah. I'm just going to
point out this. So, it says enlivening
communication ethos. My paper said to
lien our communication ethos
our hours ours
ours
since ethos is such a fancy word I look
it up
so I'm off track of the actual bridge
and the dam uh the lake and all that
onto the bigger issue which we're
enjoying right now we're all talking
these are conversations that were going
to be shut off we've got the DNR has
said some things that I don't think
anybody in the room knew. Uh so that
comes out of having a good communication
ethos. The ethos is defined as the
character, sentiment or disposition of a
community or people considered as a
natural endowment. The spirit which
actuates manners and customs. also the
characteristic tone or genius of an
institution or social organization.
Have we had a great communication ethos
in this town? I think we're an
exceptional town and there's many things
about us that are way better than
average. This one doesn't seem so to me.
And I think that's the beauty of this uh
crazy situation with the lake and the
bridge is it's exposing where we can get
stronger. So like a lot of things that
you don't like when it's happening, you
like later that it did happen because it
teaches you how you had to get stronger.
We are getting stronger. We are talking
now.
We formed last meeting by unanimous vote
an ad hoc community uh committee for
citizen engagement.
We had our first meeting at the Walton
Club recently that Matt and Doug uh
volunteered to chair. We had
communication amongst about 30 people.
Not everybody agreed on anything. Not
even all of the people who would be
called the hassling activists, if you
want to call us that, uh, agree on on
everything. And we all spoke
compassionately
and there was an uncommon amount of
compassionate listening. I felt heard in
some of the things I said. I saw other
people speaking with Doug and Matt
afterwards in a manner that felt a
awesome. I'm thinking maybe we should
start having the city council meet at
the Walton Club
instead of or at least change these
fluorescent advice.
Uh so I'm really jazzed that that all of
us all of us are sitting and talking and
finding out things. I as a citizen would
have never thought to call Roger Dish
and find out what's the story going on
here. Are you planning on charging
$60,000 if we get heard? So, I don't
want to say all the things that he said
to me, but I'm really looking forward to
when the city sits down and talks to
Roger, especially before they throw out
the $60,000 roadblock to having any
further conversation. I think Roger's
going to pleasantly surprise everybody
in this room as a wonderful asset for
this community.
He underbid this project, he told me,
specifically because he wanted to make
sure this community got a good deal.
That's why the next bid was something
like $110,000 above his bid.
So, we have a miracle right there. And
we've got a DNR that knows how to take
care of the fish. We've got our own uh
staff talking finally with the Walton
Club and with the person in this room
who knows more about that water and that
lake than anybody else in the room,
including the DNR, and that's the man
who lives on it uh and takes care of it
every day of his life, uh Larry Pageant.
And out of the conversations that Larry
has given, finally been able to give to
the city, I think lots of possibilities
are percolating for what we could do
differently. And that's only because our
communication ethos is developing and
being enlivened by all of us. And I made
it 17 seconds short.
Thank you. I didn't want to hear that
buzzer go off. Ron Blair,
huh?
We can give you some Caribbean music or
something like that. My phone. Okay,
Ron, go ahead. All right, you got five
minutes. All right, Stan, come on up.
This is Stan Simmons. I don't know if
you all know Stan, but he's uh 91 years
old and he's been uh doing soil and
water uh conservation work in here in
Jefferson County and all over southeast
Iowa for about 65 years. So, we both
have some good lake news to share with
you, but it's Pleasant Lake. It's not
Walton Lake. So um
um by the way Stan is the one who
developed all the practices designed all
the practices in Lake Darling and around
Lake Darling. He's probably designed
hundreds if not thousands of of of
private and public ponds and lakes over
the course of his uh career.
Um
the condition of the um north finger of
Pleasant Lake is it was silting in more
and more and we wanted to see if there's
anything we could do to uh stop that
process from happening. So Stan got
permission from the land owners to go
out and look at that land. And now I'm
going to actually turn over to Stan to
kind of tell you what what he found.
Well, actually, there's three land
owners that we were dealing with, and
they're all on board.
And uh one of them, in fact, said, "As
long as it's water quality that we're
looking at to improve, count me in," he
said. So, uh, but, uh, the other thing I
want to say that back in Pathfinder RCND
day days when Dale Krauss was running
it,
uh, I I actually was hired to do land
treatment above the city reservoirs,
including
Walton
and some of the terraces that you see in
the drainage area on Walton. We we did
them at that time and some ponds also.
But uh that was back a few years ago by
probably about 20
quite a while. Uh but the land owners uh
are all on board.
uh soil conservation uh people will be
the ones that uh do the design and
layout and at that time we'll we'll see
what actually uh is proposed. So, but we
made a proposal to come up with a cost
estimate and that's I think it's a good
proposal and uh it whatever the finished
product will be would be very close to
what that proposal is. I'm sure. So,
what Stan's alluding to is we actually
um this isn't this didn't involve the
city. you're strictly the beneficiary,
but we work with soil and water uh
commission or soil and water board and
uh submitted a grant to the DNR. It was
something called protect our lakes.
They've approved that grant and again
the beneficiary is the city because it's
going to improve the water quality of
Pleasant Lake and they're estimating
that it'll stop 150 to 200 tons of soil
sediment of coming into the lake each
year. So that's happening and um Sam's
really the one who opened all the doors.
And for those who have been around for
ever, it's number two pond, right? Say
it again. Number two. Most of us must
have been around forever. It's never too
pond. Exactly. It'd be always number two
pond. So any I'm running any questions
on that particular point? I'm just
curious because we just talked about
this obviously with Walton and like you
know runoff, nutrient runoff, and then
sediment runoff. And so are there
specific um actions that land owners are
taking to minimize the amount of um
That's what this grant will do. Okay.
will pay 75% land owners put in 25% and
all these different practices get put in
to prevent that um sediment sediment
from washing into the lake. Okay. So the
and I can answer I talked to Oh okay.
Okay. When they're done Yeah. Yeah. But
just so that I'm I know then the public
has to kind of be it's a public private
partnership so to speak. So like the
land owners have to be involved to a
certain buy into it. Okay. Absolutely.
100%. Cool. That's awesome. Great. Good.
Thank you very much. Very good. Thanks.
Thank you.
So to answer your question, I had um
called the NRCS regarding Walton Lake.
And so as Stan mentioned that he had
done a lot of the work on um the
upstream areas of Walton Lake um Walton
Lake is not listed as an impaired
watershed. So it's not eligible for some
of them. Okay. When DNR does come in and
do their assessments um that may help us
qualify for some of those funds. Um we
we would still be eligible for the cost
share where the city could put in money
and the property owners. Um there is
some room on the um gun club land that
the city owns to do some additional
improvements in that area that could do
some sediment um reduction in on the
land the city already owns. Um otherwise
it would be additional private property
owners. Um a lot of that money like like
the DNR money, a lot of the NRCS state
money is 5 years out. um which is why
the city really hasn't applied for these
and we appreciate Ron and Stan um having
a long-term goal compared to what we
have in the past on the other grants. So
great. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, so
let's move on to the city's real
business here
that we have on the agenda tonight of
action items. So the first is a public
hearing on the matter of the sale of
city assets which happens to be a wheel
loader. Um,
and uh, does anybody want to speak to
that? And again, as you leave, please
uh, do it quietly and then if you want
to talk, please go outside outside the
building if you want to talk any
further. Thank you. Thank you. Thank
you. Does anybody want to speak to the
uh, matter of the sale of the wheel
loader? If you guys could stick around,
we might talk about something you're
interested in.
Right. You could stick around. We might
talk about something you're interested
in.
I'm not joking. So, with that, seeing no
one, let's we will um close the public
hearing. Seriously, and move on to the
action item, consideration of the sale
of city assets uh and uh accepting bids
for this wheel loader.
And the steel bids will be received
up until 3 p.m. on July 14th of 2025.
Motion to approve. Move by Kess. Second.
Second by Tuhill. Any discussion?
Hearing none, please call the role.
Knees, yes. Tuhill, yes. SD, yes.
Florenoi, yes. Gami, yes. Row, yes.
Okay. Um, next is consideration of
contracted services agreement for
Carnegie Historical Museum.
Do you want to just kind of quickly
explain this personnel? Actually, great.
Yep. So, uh, currently we're paying two
employees, uh, contracts. This changes
our current fiscal responsibility just
to one employee. It doesn't change how
much we have to pay. Um, it just pays
the one employee contract. So,
okay.
Any questions for Terry?
Is there a motion to approve? So, moved.
Second. Moved by Gandandy, second by
Florenoi
to approve the contracted service
agreement for Carnegie Historical
Museum. Is there any further discussion?
He's not a city employee though.
Correct. Correct. Uh correct. He's a
1099 employee.
Okay. Uh hearing none other, please call
the RO. Gandandy, yes. Florenoy, yes.
Row, yes. Kess, yes. Estie, yes. Two
Hill, yes. Just Okay. Go ahead. Maybe we
should point out that there's no change
in cost to the city because of this
action. Great. Uh, next action item is
consideration of engineering services
agreement for step four and Marcus is
here to go over that.
Good evening, council. Uh, this is the
engineering service agreement for the
fourth phase of the step project.
Hopefully, it's the fourth and final
phase. Uh, this project is includes
water and sewer. The sewer runs from the
Grease Lightning lift station north to
about uh the intersection of Burlington
Avenue and 12th Street. And we're
looking at splitting this project into
two phases. Step 4 A and step 4B. 4 A
would run from Priest Lightning to just
west of the new Prairie Ridge
Campground. And then step B would run
from there north to the 12th Street in
Burlington intersection. And then step
4A also includes extending water from
Kingwood Court to approximately 100 feet
west of the Jefferson County
intersection. Uh the the agreement is
for the uh preliminary design of the
entire project and then also it is uh
includes the final design for just the
step for 4A portion which includes
environmental review land acquisition
and uh we're doing soil borings and all
those items. Uh that's kind of the
overall con idea of the engineering
agreement. I'm here to answer any
questions that you may have. The
engineering agreement is for $38,000
and 300.
Okay. Is there a motion to approve? I
make a motion that we approve the
engineering services agreement for step
four. Second. Move by Fluardo. Second by
Kess. Any further discussion?
Hearing none. Please call the role.
Flenoi. Yes. Kess. Yes. Two hip. Yes.
Ro, yes. SD. Yes. Gandandy, yes.
Next action item. Thank you, Marcus.
Next action item is consideration of
temporary easement for Sunrise Trail
Project.
You want to give us the lowdown?
[Music]
Yeah. Um so the memo kind of explains
the situation. Um although for the
Sunrise Trail we are um utilizing a
permanent easement that we purchased
with the Libertyville Road project um
2015
17 somewhere in that ballpark. Um the it
it was an easement we purchased for
Libertyville Road and then cut the
project a little short um because of the
cost of the project. Um because it's a
land, we do need to compensate the land
owner um for some damages related to um
maintaining their pasture land. Um so
French um I've talked with the property
owner. French Rener has met with the
property owner. We've come to most of
the terms. The only thing we haven't uh
exactly determined is whether they're
going to get compensated for temporary
fencing or we're going to have the
contractor um install the temporary
fencing. Um so what I'm asking because
we have 3 weeks until the next council
meeting and the contractor would like to
start before then. Um we'd asking
council to allow the city administrator
to sign something along these lines. um
um in good faith with the property owner
and allow the contractor to continue to
work. Um the highlights are that um the
buyer and the buyer has agreed to um a
compensation of 400 sorry the seller the
property owner has agreed to a
compensation of $400 for um the feeding
of their animals and they have requested
that they don't have a sewer charge
during the months of the project that
they're going to be watering their
livestock and then they will take care
of watering the um grass seeds so that
they can get back on their pasture
sooner. Um, and that does actually save
us a little bit in um in feed cost. And
then again, like I said, the only thing
that we haven't come to full conclusion
on is the temporary fencing.
So, a very small payment. Um, typically
we would call this like a tenant
purchase agreement um with a farmer
that's renting a farm field. Uh but in
this case it is the land owner is also
the person farming the area. Is this the
ement that's west of where the current
roadway is? North. So this is northwest
of the Sunrise Trail. Okay.
So and this is right where we're this is
the downstream even though it's
northwest which it is still the
downstream point of the sanitary sewer.
So it is where the contractor needs to
start. Okay.
So, I would move that the council grant
the city administrator uh permission to
sign the uh preliminary agreement.
Second. Okay. It's been moved and second
to uh have the city administrator sign
off on this temporary easement for
Sunrise Trail. Any further discuss
discussion or questions? Maybe you
mentioned this already, Melanie, but
about how long are we expecting it to
take? um we'll only be in their property
for
a couple weeks. Couple weeks. But um
because it's pasture land, we have to
compensate them until the grass is um
reestablished. Got it. Um some farmers
ask for the growing season. Some ask for
a year and a half because they want it
fully fully established. Um and they've
agreed to allow it for the rest of the
um
summer season, the growing season. Okay.
Okay. So, they've agreed to be
compensated through October. All right.
Thanks.
Okay. Hearing no other questions. Please
call the role. Gandandy, yes. Florenoi,
yes. Ro, yes. Two Hill, yes. Kess, yes.
Estie, yes. Great. Thank you. Approved
unanimously. So, the next three items,
uh, the action item and two resolutions
have to do with a bonding of, uh, a
general obligation bond of 8,455,000.
These bonds uh are related to the fire
station,
highway one and the roundabout and
sunrise trail infrastructure. So the
first action item really is the legal
part of it. Consideration of bond and
disclosure council engagement agreement
with allers and cooney.
Move to approve. Moved by Gandandy.
Second. Second by Florenoi. Any
discussion
hearing? None. Please call the role.
Gandandy, yes. Florenoi, yes. Kess, yes.
Estie, yes. Tuhill, yes. Row, yes. Okay.
The first resolution, consideration to
approve distribution of preliminary
official statement for 8,455,000
general obligation capital loan notes
series 2025. This is where they'll take
it out to the banks and the investment
companies to review. And
I think that's when we get our what
really the interest rate will be too. So
and our bond reading also. Okay. Motion
to approve. Second. Moved by Estie.
Second by Florenoi. Any discussion?
Hearing none. Please call the role.
Estie. Yes. Florenoi. Yes. Damn. Yes.
Row. Yes. Tuhill. Yes. Kess. Yes. Okay.
Okay. The next resolution, final
resolution for this is consideration to
establish parameters for the sale of
approximately 8,455,000
general obligation capital loan notes
series 2025. Delegation of authority to
execute note purchase agreement. Move to
approve. Move by Kess. Second. Second by
Gandandy. Any discussion?
Hearing none, please call the role.
Kess, yes. Gandandy, yes. Row, yes.
Tupill, yes. Estie, yes. Floreno. Yes.
Okay. Next resolution. Uh consideration
to authorize release and waiver of
claims agreement and resend resolution
3241 annexation of Huffman Estates.
Uh
sure. Melanie back. Do you want to say
just quickly what happened here? So this
uh back in 2015 era again we did an
annexation of Huffman Estates.
Unfortunately, the state denied uh that
annexation because you're supposed to
touch it by 50 ft and I think we touched
it by 40 40.
Yeah. So, we're going to rescend that
annexation resolution and authorize your
next step after that is signing a waiver
um with Huffman's and we will repay them
back their city taxes versus their
county taxes, right? And they won't say
or whatever. So make the motion to
authorize the release and waiver of
claims agreement and resend resolution
number 3241 and accession of Huffman
Estates. Okay. Move by second. Second by
Gandandy. I have a question. So explain
to me a little bit more so I have a
better understanding the difference. 40
ft 50 ft. What are we talking about
there? State regulates that you have to
when you annex land it has to be
adjacent to the city and it has to be
adjacent by 50 ft
at maximum, right? Minimum. Minimum. You
just said we were adjacent by 40 ft.
We didn't meet 50 ft. We were 40t. Oh,
we didn't have enough
missed by 10 ft. Right. So, what happens
to the 50 ft to 40 ft? Same person
measured the death of the lake. So,
joke.
So, in a perfect world, Paul would have
resended that a while back. Yeah. Okay.
All right. Instead, it kind of fell
through the cracks. Yep, we can say.
Okay, so we do have a first and second.
Any other questions? Please call the RO.
Florenoy, yes. Gandandy, yes. Row, yes.
Kess, yes. Tuhville, yes. Estie, yes.
Great. Thank you. Those approved
unanimously. Now we go to the
consideration of release and waiver of
claims agreement. Again, uh Huffman's
will receive 5584,
which was uh city taxes that they had
paid. So what we're going to basically
we're refunding that. I make a motion to
approve the release and river claims
agreement. Okay. Moved by Florenoi.
Second. Second by Till. Any discussion?
And just to be clear, that's just the
city's portion of the tax instruction.
Okay.
Any other questions? Hearing none,
please call the role. Floreno, yes.
Tuhill, yes. Kess, yes. Row, yes. Estie,
yes. Gandandy, yes. Okay. Uh, next is
ordinance 1266. This is the second
reading for a sewer fee amendment and
attached is your proposed fee schedule.
I'll open a public hearing. Does anybody
want to speak to this schedule?
Seeing none, I'll close the public
hearing and council. Uh, would you like
to move this to the third reading? I'll
make a motion move ordinance 1266 from
the second to the third reading. Second.
Third and final. Yeah. Be the final.
Yeah. Uh moved by Florenoi, second by
Estie, I believe. Any further
discussion?
If not, please call the role. Florenoi,
yes. Estee, yes. Two Hill, yes.
Gandandy, yes. Kess, yes. Row, yes.
Okay. Ordinance. Uh, this is the first
reading. Consideration to repeal
07.04.250
monthly charge for C compost service
fee. That was 80 cents a month that we
had put in place. So now we're
rescending it because we're not moving
forward that at this time. Rebecca, you
need to leave. So yeah. Yes. Oh, yes.
Thank you. I do have that down here, but
I haven't read it yet. Thank you. So we
had this on when we did the budget. Now
we're taking it off again. Yep.
Um and there has been a request from
staff that we suspend the rules tonight
and then do three readings and uh then
move it to the third and final reading
today. So it's done so it doesn't go
into place in July. So I'll make the
motion to suspend the rules. Okay. Uh
second floor moved and second by
Gandandy to suspend the rules for the
purposes of this ordinance only. Yes. Um
any discussion? Now please call the
role. Floro. Yes. Gandandy. Yes. Kess.
Yes. Ro. Yes. Estie.
I do have some questions. I'm sorry. We
just you said discussion and I didn't
speak up. So, how can we address that?
Sorry. Just go ahead. Can I just discuss
something real quick before I vote?
Yeah. Okay. Preamble with your preamble.
May I uh just just understand
what this is because was this for um the
private composting? Yeah. And so why is
that not happening? I guess I didn't
realize. So you discussed it at council,
right? We did not discuss this at
council. So surprise.
So what is happening is is there we
don't have a new brush site. The the
existing one the street department is
still continuing collecting at their
Uhhuh. at their facility and they're
disposing of it. But the existing brush
site was never ours in the beginning. So
FIA is preparing to market that and
they're have given us notice. Okay. So,
so they did not want to proceed with um
right and we have been looking since
this this has occurred we have been
looking for a different site that we
might be able to work with this private
contractor and right now without us
purchasing property or you know what
have you it we're putting that portion
on pause and we don't want to charge
anyone
before we have a solution. So, we're
right now we're just collecting as
normal. Way to evacuate that site.
Uh I think they're working on it now,
but it's it's closed for the time being.
Okay. And has been. It has been since
this whole thing began. Yeah. Since when
and when did that when did when did it
begin? Oh gosh. Last year. What do you
mean when did it begin? When did they
decide to market? Yeah. that I I assume
that's what you're talking about. Yeah.
Um I think they let us know a few months
ago. Okay. And yeah, that's the last
time you were discussing it at
committee. So yeah, I just didn't know
that that was just a few months ago and
you know it's their property. They can
do as they please. Okay. So where's
Estie? Yes. To where's the street
department moving?
They I Joe has got that worked out, but
I I think right now that they are they
do have a location that they can burn,
they can ship where they're at or they
can haul it to Simco themselves. Those
are the options that they have
currently, I believe. Of course, looks
like they're chipping things and putting
it on Jefferson you can access there. We
still sell the tags for that. Sorry. We
still sell the tags for that. gentlemen
to start buying hygiene. Yeah, that's
part of it. Yeah. Yep. Okay. So, that
was approved unanimously.
Just
suspend to suspend the rules at least.
Yeah. To suspend the rules. That was
approved unanimously. Suspend the rules.
Did you call everybody? Yeah. Okay.
Okay. Now, I'm looking for a motion to
move this to the third and final
reading. I like to motion to move u
repeal of 0407.0
04.250
monthly charge etc. from the first to
the final reading. Second moved by
Floren, second by Tuhill.
Discussion
questions.
No. No. Okay. Uh, hearing none, please
call the RO. Florenoi, yes. Two, yes.
Kess, yes. Ro, yes. Gandandy, yes. SD,
yes.
Okay, great. Uh, I'm just going to try
to be quick under the mayor's report. A
couple things. Um,
we had an opioid meeting
last week. Was that last week,
Elizabeth? Last meeting. Um, yes. I'm
sorry. Yeah. And um what a new thing
that I found out was because we don't
have an official agreement the city with
the county about those OBO funds, the
county will be approving distribution of
funds. I'll let you know what what they
decide.
um
you know I mean we're all basically
people who are coming to that are
you know listening to the proposals
although there haven't been that many
proposals however there was a proposal
that the county uh approved last week or
the week before I'm not sure which uh I
think I found out about after the fact
that was approximately $9,000 it's spent
for a program called strengthening
families program.
And did you get that paperwork that I
dropped? I did. And you know what? I
meant to bring it and I left it at home.
But it is a program. Um Jay Thompson
brought this to the forefront. He's the
counselor at the middle school. It's a
program where they bring families in and
work with them over two or three months,
I believe it is. They provide meals for
them. and uh it's one of the most
effective uh programs to keep uh kids
off drugs and um
and so they did approve that there'll be
10 12 families involved. Yeah, I think
it's it's evidence-based. I guess the
only issue that that's that it doesn't
really address is the age at which it
starts they start working with kids.
It's usually around 11 or 12. I know
that's something that we had discussed
at the opioid meeting was getting
education to kids younger, you know,
just about making good choices and
everything. Yeah. So, apparently it's a
very effective uh program. So, they did
um
approve that. So, I'll let you know uh
unless and and I have to say this is new
information that I was unaware of.
That's why I was bringing these things
for your vote. And um Elizabeth brought
up that because the city doesn't has not
requested in a formal
kind of agreement. This X amount is the
cities and X amount is the counties. You
know, it's all for the county good. So,
um so we're not going to do that.
We need a 280 or something like that.
Yeah, something like that. Correct,
John? Yeah. Good. Good. So, I guess you
can let that settle, but um that's the
way it is right now. So, okay.
Um,
so, uh, tonight we're going to announce
some Bob Ferguson's going to come up
here. Bob, take very quickly because
we've still got a bunch of stuff to do.
And I say no good thing happens after
9:00 and we're at 8:59.
Um, we're excited because Bob is doing
so much leg work for the top seven
intelligent communities for 2027 and we
are in the top seven for 2025.
So this is our third application.
This is our third third time that we
have been included in the smart 21 and
this is over 400 communities around the
world do an assessment. You send them in
and there's a scoring rubric and as the
founder told me, it isn't how much you
do, it's what you do. And so a small
city like Fairfield can participate. You
can compete. And so we were in Smart 21
years ago. We were in Smart 21 last
year. We made Smart 21 this year. And
each year we did a narrative. And each
year's narrative has gotten successfully
better. And this year, I did have the
advantage of not being able to work with
the formatting. So I sent our narrative
to the executive director said, "Matt,
will you please fix the formatting?" Not
only fixed the formatting, he said, "I
just stripped out all the stuff that
wouldn't score high
in your in your narrative." So my
beautiful 100page narrative became a
40page narrative. And last Thursday
night, we got the word that we were of
the 400 plus communities who competed,
we were given a top seven spot. Huh,
that's awesome. That's great.
So, they will come to visit in
September. Yes. There's a couple of
consequences of this. Number one, we get
to have a site visit in September or
October.
And so that's a natural
goal setting date for doing a lot that
we could do with both city funds and
with private funds and with volunteers
and city staff to really bring
everything in the city up to as high a
level visually and otherwise that we
possibly can. It also means that we will
be putting together a worldclass
presentation about Fairfield to be
presented in the Bendong region of
Vietnam on the 2nd to 4th of December.
And so we're going to have to decide who
gets to go or who wants to go and who's
going to represent us. And there'll be
more than one speaker. Um, it's really
actually a pretty thrilling thing
because we have se six other
communities. Uh, only one other in the
United States. That's Hillyard, Ohio,
which is a suburb of Columbus. We have a
community in Turkey. We have a community
in uh, Spain. We have a couple of
communities in Canada and I think that's
that's and one in Brazil. Brazil.
Brazil.
One in Brazil. Brazil. Good. Okay. So
you see thank you. So in any case yes
yes ponas in Brazil. So uh what what
happens from this is that we get to
communicate and have an active cohort
where we're talking with each other
among our fellow top seven honories. And
so that gives us a really big leg up.
And there's one story that I think is
worth telling. Was talking to Robert
Bell, one of the founders, and he said,
you know, when Fairfield rose to the top
seven, and this is there's no favoritism
here. This is a very very complex and
detailed rubric that they have developed
and there's I think seven or eight um
evaluators from all over the country.
And if you win, you win. It's if if
you're in the top 21 in in the in the
measures of looking at, you're in the
smart 21. If you're in the top seven
relative to all of their metrics, then
you make the top seven. So, he said, if
you win, you win fair and square. He
said, however, I have been telling
people for years that our methodology
and our metrics apply to cities of all
size, large, mediumsiz, and small.
said, "I said that it applied to very
small cities without any real evidence
that that was the case." So he said,
"When Fairfield rose to the top seven,"
I said, "Hot dang.
We, you know, we're now fully proven
out. We are the smallest city ever to be
named in the top seven in the 25 years
of the competition."
So I think we can be justifiably proud
and I think what we heard you know about
an ethos of of communication I was very
proud of what I heard at the beginning
of this meeting. I think it it speaks
volumes about our community, the
flexibility, and it's really nice to
have what we have felt for a long time,
and what there's plenty of objective
evidence that we're an unusual community
to have this kind of um recognition. So,
I I'm going to suggest that we do join
the organization. We have gotten as far
as we have gotten without actually
becoming a member of ICF.
In order to do that, we have to come up
with $1,500.
Supervisors this morning said that they
will put $500 in if someone else pays
the rest. So, I'm here to ask the city
uh $4,000.
Now, there may be other sources of
funds. If we want to stretch it out, you
could approve 500 or we could just get
it done with a,000. What that gives us
now did uh kind of does everyone have
they had it. It was attached. Okay.
Everyone has the document. So you can
read the three-page document and find
out exactly what we get for doing that.
The very first thing is that we get an
assessment based on the metrics, the
best practice metrics that they have
been developing over 25 years. And they
normally charge $2,500 for that that
comes with that fee.
That's the least of it. thing. You know,
there's all kinds of courses and
programs and metrics that we can use if
we choose to use them, but we have all
of the power of that international
organization our disposal. But for 1,500
bucks, I'd say that's a pretty good
bargain.
So, that's that's my ask for tonight.
Can I make a motion? Yes. Can we pay the
$1,000 to approve this from top seven uh
lost loss funds? I'll second the motion.
Okay. It's been moved and seconded to
pay $1,000 out of loss funds to become a
member of ICF.
Any questions? Yes. So, what what does
the city get out of it? Like, is there a
Well, without seeming too clever by
half, what we get out of it is what we
put into it. What we get out of it is we
don't they don't give us money.
But if we pay the $1,500 and we get the
advantage of 25 years of data
collection, why do you think that they
did a contest where you had to provide
absolutely detailed
information on every aspect of your city
and then you can correlate those details
with the actual health of the city.
They've developed a tremendous database
of practices that actually work around
the world. So that's the first thing we
get out of it. Second thing, wait, so
when you say work, work, what do you
mean by work? Work meaning
there are practices that actually help
economic development, help social
development. They're they're validated
practices that tend toward improving the
quality of life in the community on on
all levels. So I think what we're going
to get out of is education of where we
where we've done things well, what
things we're missing, how we can improve
any particularly digital assets and uh
improve upon those and help our
businesses improve upon those. Um
basically like a cheap cheap consultant.
Yep. I mean, listening to Deb, you know,
tonight about the, you know, the little
walkabout, if you will, that's just one,
that's just a little teeny tiny
pin prick, I would say, of what you can
do digitally, right? Yeah. But 20 years
ago, we wouldn't even have been thinking
of that.
So now, it could be part part of our
city, right, for tourism. and how can we
take that and expand it but also how can
our businesses also expand their
businesses through the digital economy
and what they're doing through the
digital economy. So digitally are you
meaning like online potentially?
Is there something else cuz that's you
know well I mean that's one reason we've
done so well is cuz we've had broadband
you know to our whole community for a
long time. Mhm. So, um,
started as an organization that was
ringing the bell 25 years ago for cities
to wake up to the fact that if they
didn't start broadband infrastructure,
they were going to be left behind.
That has largely been that's still a
part of the what they measure, you know,
broadband accessibility, equity, price,
all that. But really it's expanded to
what are you doing with your broadband?
To what good
endpoint are you utilizing your
broadband? And so one of the things that
interests me is that
if you have an organization with
hundreds and hundreds of communities all
over the world, many of which have made
the smart 21 and the top seven and the
and the top. We have access to that big
brain. M we have access to what happens
in Einhovven, what happens in Bindong,
which happens in New Taipei City, what
happens in Hamilton, Ontario. We've got
access to that. And frankly, from a
bragging rights, how many other small
cities of 10,000 people can say that
they have by an international
organization
been nominated, been named one of the
top seven smart connected cities in the
world. If we can't make some hay with
that, then we're not trying very hard.
So, there's a lot of just bragging
rights. And I know since this has
happened and I've gotten the word out,
people from all over the country are
saying, "Wow, that is amazing. What are
you guys doing there? You know, maybe I
should come and visit Fairfield." So,
you know,
what's going to come of it? What we make
of it.
So
we'll be talking Mr. Economic
Development Committee chair talking to
you and uh and you know Doug likes to
travel so maybe he wants to go to
Vietnam in December. Yeah. So anyway, so
there'll be you'll we'll be talking
about it more. Thank you. Uh so we need
to get to this vote. All right. Any
other questions really quickly? Okay.
Thanks, Bob. Wait, just so that I I'm
sorry. Just so that I can clarify.
Actually, I'm not sorry. Um, so we got
the designation without being a member.
Yes. But they've been of course
collecting all of our data all these
years. So we're going to be paying them
for our data, but then also like their
other expertise about, you know,
regarding data that they've collected
from all the other cities as well.
Correct. Well, given that the total
population of all the cities that have
participated probably top 100 million,
um our 10,000 while our data is very
meaningful because it's from a small
city. Um they're not asking, you know,
there's no quid proquo here. uh it's
just that do we want to have a formal
relationship with this organization? Do
we want access to all the tools? Do we
want that nifty evaluation that will
come in and look at everything in our
community and benchmark it against the
best in the world? I think I but I think
we do I guess but it seems like a bag of
tools we get and we plug in become part
of a big brain that's could be
beneficial to the city. Yeah, that that
that's it in a nutshell. Good hills.
Okay. Tools and the big brain. Yes.
Tools and a big brain. Okay.
Go ahead. Kess. Yes. Florenoi. Yes. Two
hill. Yes. Estie. Yes. Row. Yes.
Gandandy. Yes.
Great. Thank you. That's all I have
under the mayor's report. Thanks, Bob.
Uh, city attorney report. Yes, your
honor. Um,
two or three things. one. Um, last week
we had a hearing over in the magistrate
court about recovering our costs on the
demolition of Mr. Npalio's property down
on North D Street. Uh, the mayor
testified, the judge gave us a couple of
uh, days to uh, add some certification
as far as invoices and stuff which shall
be uh, assisted with from over here.
That's all part of the court's file now.
And since then, the court has kicked it
upstairs to the district court judge. U
I think I've explained to you that when
we go after some of these things, the
magistrate has a jurisdictional
limitation of allowing us $6,500.
he can find that the $18,000 plus that
it actually cost and it was part of our
bid process and so forth is reasonable,
but as far as awarding us a judgment, uh
he needs to have the district court
review that ultimately the judgment will
come back to us as u a district court
judgment. That'll also involve us having
u one more situation where Mr. Npalio
can participate as a person in the
hearing if he chooses to when the
district court reviews this. Mr. Npalio
has been ghosting us since u back at the
time when we were bidding the
demolition. So I'm not anticipating uh
as far as a high likelihood that he will
participate in this kick up to the
district court. U anyway the mayor did a
fine job of testifying etc etc. So um
anyway, we are uh in that uh situation
probably going to use some of the
certification and stuff that we did for
some other demolitions that will
probably be likely over the course of
the next 6 months with some other 657A.
So,
that being said, um we have another
house right now that I'm supposed to
have a uh telephone conference with some
family members and a lady named Connie
uh up at 604 North Second Street here,
which is a badly dilapidated house that
she's prepared to sign over to the city.
Uh similar circumstances to the Kevin
Franklin house a year or two ago. Um she
has a lean against the property, but she
feels that there is a high likelihood
that that lean may be forgiven with a
couple calls to a collection company
that was pursuing something probably on
a high contingent fee with a credit card
company. So she does not believe that
that uh company that's a collection
agency is going to want be involved u in
any way want to be involved as a party
in a 650 6057A
suit. Uh I'm expecting that uh she will
be prepared probably to sign a deed to
us in lie of the 657A. So I'll I'll
report to you more on that the next go
round. Third thing I guess I want to
comment on is u sort of u what I'm going
to call a parliamentary overview
u something that relates to the past
several hearings we've had with good
participation from a b bunch of public
speakers but which I think uh prompted
me to suggest to the mayor that maybe we
uh have the chief be sergeant- of- arms
under parliamentary rules to make sure
there's always order and under his
watchful eye, so to speak. Uh, and other
than that, uh, reconfigure things here
so that we don't have any situations
that may turn into u verbal fisticuffs
and so forth as we've had a little bit
of uh, in a recent past meeting, by the
way. Yeah. Being in church. Yeah. So,
anyway, that's something watchful eye.
that uh probably uh we do have a good
set of city procedural rules for the way
we conduct our meetings, but from a
parliamentary standpoint, if we do run
into situations where the mayor has to
gavvel things down, uh having Dave
positioned in this situation for large
groups like that is probably the best
way to do it. I know I talked to Dave
about this a couple times also that we
did have some concerns about things like
people taking off their shoes in the
crowd uh and creating what probably
violates a fire rule as far as uh the
movement through uh the different chair
rows and things like that. Uh so
sometimes it's little almost invisible
situations that you also have to make
sure as part of maintaining order and
safety. So, uh, enough said about that,
but I expect once in a while we'll have
something come up where, uh, I make a
comment as your parliamentarian that I
usually leave alone. Okay, that's my
report. Great. Uh, committee and board
reports, Walton Lake. Um, we had our
meeting last Thursday and it was lively
and um, healthy. I think I can't really
add much anything more than what Ed had
said earlier. So, we will look at um
having a meeting this Thursday at 6:15
at the Walton Club and continue the
conversation and uh begin to look at u
apps that the city might be able to use
to facilitate communication with the
public, that sort of thing. But, no,
that sounds good.
Aren't we already looking at apps to
facilitate communication? I thought that
that was something that we
are working on it. Uh, no one's well
exactly looking at it. I guess actually
I just it's fine but I had mentioned to
Doug just recently
that it sound like Melanie had two or
three apps and let the IT committee work
work on that. Yeah, this committee can
troubleshoot it and see what they like,
see what they don't like, you know, that
kind of thing. Okay. Yeah, I think we
just my opinion. I think we definitely
start with an app that the city approves
of first or multiple options that the
city approves of rather than letting the
committee start with their Yeah, I'm
going to start with Yeah. her
suggestions.
And I I got an email today about one
fact. So, great. Might be saying. Okay.
Uh environmental and franchise. Uh
there's nothing really actionable, but
um in light of the conversations that
have been happening, I thought it would
be beneficial to have an environmental
and franchise utilities committee
meeting to discuss
environmental impact on potentially dra,
you know, draining part of the lake. Um
and then of course just talking about
where the health of the lake currently.
Uh although we did have some members of
the public attend, my understanding is
that Matthew and Doug mentioned it at
their meeting and none of the
homeowners. You guys mentioned it,
right? We did. So none of the homeowners
attended the um this meeting. Um which
was unfortunate cuz I was looking
forward to maybe some more community
engagement.
Um but we addressed some of the things
and discussed um many of the points that
the DNR brought up today. Uh that was
through Doug Doug's um input and faith
as well. They were really um helpful in
kind of explaining what the process
looks like. We talked about collecting
the data and then you know as the DNR
discussed tonight coming up with a plan
and maybe um some grant funding
opportunities. Again those are kind of
far out in the future. and then
incremental steps that we can take to
kind of address some of these inputs,
which um came up again when we were
discussing Pleasant Lake, specifically
regarding nutrient and silt runoff into
the lake and maybe things that we can do
to engage with um homeowners in a public
private partnership um to to um and
through education to kind of address
potential um options that the homeowners
can take um in terms of minimizing the
sediment runoff. So,
it was an interesting meeting. I'd like
I I hope that we can have another one
and have it um attended by homeowners,
but um Okay. Uh personnel,
uh we've really already uh acted on the
items to be discussed. the water and
superintendent salary needed to be
brought into step four um compliance and
then the Carnegie employee contract.
Okay. We did discuss staffing needs at
the at city hall, but there's no action
to be done. Okay, great. Water and
sewer. So, the step of step four was
that part of our consent agenda. Was
that built into Well, it was part of the
salary approval and the consent agenda
and the change that we were approved.
Yeah. Was built into that salary.
Correct. Yeah. Yeah. I double check
that. Yeah. Okay. Water and sewer. Yeah.
There were uh two items we discussed and
they both have action items. The first
is 411 North Court Street. Um there was
a leak. It went into the dirt and not
the sewer system. And so, uh, water and
sewer recommends that council, and I
guess I'll make a motion, uh, that we
wave, uh, or we reduce the sewer fee for
that household by $1,17344.
You're saying wow on that one. Wait till
you hear the next one.
Okay. 1173 411 North Court. Thank you.
Uh, sorry. That was 1,17344.
44. Okay, great. Because it didn't go in
the sources. Correct. Yeah. All right.
Okay. Is there a second to that motion?
I'll second. Okay. First and second uh
to refund 117344 to the North Court
address. Uh any discussion
hearing? None. Please call the role.
Row. Yes. Two Hill. Yes. Kess. Yes.
Estie. Yes. Damn. Yes. Florenoi. Yes.
Okay, next one. All right, so the next
one is 2020 North Be Street. Um, I'm
going to try to make this as brief as
possible. But there was an issue with I
guess a valve that was not supposed to
be open, but somehow was open and a lot
of water ended up for uh 1 month leaking
through a uh
well into the sewer. went into the
sewer. Many tens of thousands of dollars
in bill. Uh it was I think
over $39,000
in sewer charges in sewer charges. So
because it went into the sewer system,
uh you know, obviously we are not
recommending that we reduce that bill
because the city is paying for it. But
uh when the bill is large enough, the
city does have a policy of giving uh the
homeowner a period of a year to pay off
the charges. So we've already offered
that and uh water and sewer is
recommending that we extend that period
from 1 year to 3 years
or maybe even more. I mean it's it's a
big bill.
They they called it a fountain. It's
more of a waterfall really is what it
is. Um, a waterfall system where they
never even realized it was metered
before. That's what we just because they
it would never be water that would go
down in the sewer system. But because
this valve was left open or partially
open, my understanding is that it had a
separate meter associated with it that
they would only be charged water for and
not sewer. But then there was a leak
that caused the water to go into a drain
that normally the water would never see.
So
very unfortunate. Wow.
So, is there a minimum payment required?
Uh, usually what we do is we divide that
bill up by if we're doing three years by
those 36 months and they have to pay I
see x amount plus the regular bill.
Yeah. So, you want to extend it for a
total of three years. Yeah, that would
be the I make that motion. Okay. Moved
by floor. Second motion. Yeah. I'll
second floor. Second by Ro. Yeah,
further discussion. There's no interest
on this uh three-year payment plan.
I mean, I'm just asking just to be sure.
Okay. What happened again? How did it
happen? They they have a fountain out in
their yard. It's it's really it's a
waterfall system is what it is out in
the yard. So, they have a what they call
a vault down below which the pump system
is is contained in. They shut it down in
the winter, they shut it off, and they
um reopen it in the spring. Well,
sometime before the point where they
went back down to reopen it for the
spring, somebody had turn partially
turned a valve on down there where the
water didn't go through the the the
waterfall system, but just emptied out
into the pit down below and went out the
uh went out the drain into the sewer
system, which was metered. Um, and
normally that would never happen. The
water would go from the pit to the
waterfall system. it would never go from
the pit to the sewer. Um, it just so
happened they they didn't the the city
water department actually didn't even
realize there was a meter on that
portion of it until they went out. Uh,
they saw the bill, they went out and the
city water department actually shut the
rest of the valve off to stop it. Um,
but how it happened,
they don't know. Not our Yeah, not our
They don't know. I mean there we have
guesses but but nobody can the the water
and sewer department will they are doing
a um pinpoint reading where they can
determine exactly when that water went
out. Um you know I I know they're
probably curious of when the city went
down and they actually accidentally
turned it on. Um but it'll show when the
city went out that the water was
probably discharged prior to that point.
So, um,
you know, if if it comes back different
than that, then we'll probably come back
here again. But, um, that's where we're
at right now. Smart meter would be
phenomenal. Exactly. And we we brought
that up. Huh. So, because smart would
have you would have seen identified it
immediately. Yep. Okay. So, we do have a
motion and a second on the floor to have
this bill be paid over 3 years. Uh,
there's no other questions. Please call
the role. Florenoi. Yes. Ro, yes.
Gandandy, yes. SD, yes. Kess, yes. Two
Hill, yes. Thank you. Thriving Iowa
communities on Main Street. Thank you,
mayor. So, you you recall our the day
after our last council meeting on June
10th, there's a groundbreaking for the
Sunrise Trail System, Sunrise Trail
development, and
the Thriving Iowa Communities
application ties directly into that. the
thriving Iowa communities uh application
if we're successful in achieving that
designation is going to mean that that
division is that subdivision is going to
become even more attractive. I know that
uh and you all are somewhat familiar
with we talked about this before Faith
Ree has working very hard very
diligently on preparing that
application. We submitted it I believe
in the second week in May. Yes. And we
are going to be giving the the the the
the small team that's been working on it
is going to be giving a presentation
before the Iowa Economic Development
Authority and the Iowa Finance Authority
on July 7th in De Moines. Uh we feel
very good about the application. How
much how many pages was the application,
Faith? It's six sections and um there
were PDFs that were enormous. I can't
tell you how many pages. I mean, this is
on the order of, I think, what uh Bob
Bob has done with the community uh
intelligent community forum application.
It's massive, but the benefits are would
be tremendous to the city in terms of um
federal tax credits, Iowa State, Iowa
tax credits, uh benefits that would
attract developers as soon as we're
designated. So, we've got a we've got a
subdivision that's ripe for development.
It just began the groundbreaking for the
infrastructure, I believe, last week.
So, if we get this designation, I think
I think we the city can be very positive
about that. we can expect that the that
as I say the Sunrise development would
become even ever more attractive. The
other thing I wanted to mention has to
do with Main Street. Again, this is
another uh application process the city
is very deeply involved with. If you
recall, the city is committed to $15,000
a year for the next three years to fund
I think payment for an executive
director for the Main Street Main Street
community if we were designated one. um
that we're having a presentation a
committee is going to present to the
very same state organization on July
11th. I believe it's July 11th and July
10th uh in De Mo and we feel very good
about that. I don't know how many people
or cities are applying but uh they're
not that many and our chances are very
good because they have the experience of
doing it in the past. That would mean if
we were get that designation, a lot of
attention kind of like intelligent
community forum but in the level of the
state uh a lot of attention, a lot of
intelligence, a lot of brain power on
developing our downtown even more so. Um
I I just want to let the the city should
know we've been major players in both
these initiatives. The chances are good
that we're going to be designated for
both of them. I would say you never know
until it happens, but we'll probably
find out later on in the summer.
That was my update. Great. Thank you.
Okay. Uh, city administrator report.
We went through 5759
and 61 North Court and we actually
brought in a building a certified
building code or a building inspector
from Iowa City. They're supposed to be
providing us a
report that I will give to our city
attorney and I will pass that along to
council as well.
I needed them to evaluate that
particular building of us moving
forward. We also brought in um uh
someone to do a market analysis of that
building and we will be passing that
report on as well to see where we sit,
do some data collection, but typic this
this particular building going to court.
I want to provide a document to the
judge that this is what we see and I can
pass that off to John and let him handle
it things the way he needs to handle it.
I also uh the DNR is still here. Thank
you Chad uh for your input and coming
in. We gotten almost to the point to
where we talk about every day via email
at least and sometimes phone calls. But
uh I appreciate their expertise and the
data that they give us and we will
follow their guidance and yield back to
the recommendations they they give us
over time with this particular topic u
of Walton Lake and some of the other
things that we're doing has given us
some pause that we have been going with
the police chief of evaluating
parliamentary procedures of this council
but also the safety aspects that that we
will be doing. um in in the future we
can bring some recommendations
uh to you to let you um give us some
guidance on how we want to move forward.
But one making sure that people can
leave this building when we get crowds
in a safe fashion. The fact that we have
decorum is really important. respect on
both sides of this aisle and the fact
that uh you know us as public servants,
we have hard jobs and that we have
feelings. We are people. We do want to
go home to our families. We have jobs
here. We like what we do. We need to be
treated with respect just as much as we
respect uh the the citizens that we work
for. Uh a couple of other things again
we brought up the IT apps of
communication. We really do work hard at
that and we're looking into some other
things and we'll we'll continue to bring
up voice recordings and what have you.
But also the going back to the meter
situation in the next few weeks. Uh we
will be uh bringing um the the meter
company in. They're helping us look for
grants. We have about $2 million worth
of infrastructure that we need to
install. We buy a couple hundred meters
a year, which is not 3,000. And they're
going to help us see if we can find ways
that we can pay for those. And we'll be
bringing those grant applications to you
if something may or may not work for us.
But we're also looking into a program
where if an individual wants to purchase
a meter and have them installed, then
they can and but it will still be
something that, you know, we'll
maintain, what have you, but they could
purchase it and then we can install it
for them and and uh help it go a little
bit faster. But that's all I have for
right now. Okay, great. Uh
project report.
Um, just a couple things to touch base
on. Uh, the Shiitaka bathrooms, we had a
walkthrough last week and there's just a
few punch up punch list items, uh, clean
up things for them to finish up. Um, we
do hope to have a ribbon cutting next
week. Um, and have the bathrooms open
for the Fourth of July weekend. So,
we'll send out invitations
um, to everyone uh, for that. and I
talked with Andy Hullman a little bit
last week to so the bathrooms are still
not open. Um we want to get the grass
seat established and again there's just
a few punch list items on that. Um as we
were talking in the
work session about the Washington uh
county foundation grant um the fire
station. We've we've talked about the
different the removals of the various um
old buildings, the removal of the floor
uh the 1912 floor which was not part of
the original removal. So um this was not
stuff that was covered in the bond work.
This was additional to Chrisner. Um we
don't have the final cost of this all
figured out. We're trying to um make
sure that there's no overlap of
excavation so that we can get the number
as low as possible. Um but I'm going to
say more than likely all of our
contingency is going to be used with
that number alone. Uh so um
if we want to strategically even though
we've never gotten the Washington County
Foundation, maybe maybe we don't care
about being strategic with it. Uh but um
I we just need to
continue to look for funds um for the
fire station. Uh the underground work is
where we normally find our change orders
and um we're we're about done digging
holes. I mean we're we're putting in the
foundations now. So um things should be
looking up from there, but we want to
make sure that we uh stay stay on track
for the rest of the project. Um we'll
we'll keep providing updates, but I just
want to let people know that we are we
would really like to um see that
Washington County money um for the fire
station as well. And then um Sunrise
Trail, we talked about that a little bit
with the um temporary easement or the
temporary payment. Uh so there was a
pre-construction meeting held about a
month ago. the contractor is going to be
starting um
I said mid June in this but I think it
was mid July not mid June um and uh so
within the next couple weeks and um so
we're going to be seeing uh dirt move
pipe being put in the ground and um
and you know well I mean when pipe goes
in the ground you don't really get to
see a lot but uh there'll be equipment
out there making noise so great thank
[Music]
Okay. So, uh before we go into close
session, I just want to thank everybody.
I want to thank the public for tonight's
meeting. It's a really long, but I think
we overall we did pretty well and uh I
think there was new information brought.
Really want to thank DNR for being here
tonight. I think that was good. I want
to thank John for bringing up some legal
points that I think were important to
hear um for some residents and uh again
thank the council for their time and uh
I will take a motion to uh go into close
session.
So moved moved by two house or a second.
Second by
uh go ahead and call the role. Yes.
Estie. Yes. Florenoid. Yes. Gambi. Yes.
Ro. Yes.
She