Title: Foodways
URL: https://franiowa.org/foodways/
Type: page
Source: franiowa.org
------------------------------------------------------------

Subcommittee

Foodways

The Foodways subcommittee focuses on strengthening Fairfield and Jefferson County’s local food system to improve food security, farm viability, and community resilience. This work emphasizes building foundational knowledge, supporting education and engagement, and coordinating toward long-term infrastructure and market pathways that increase access to locally produced food while strengthening the regional economy.

Get Involved!

Foodways Focus Areas

After careful consideration,the Foodways Subcommittee is directing their attention toward these key focus areas initially:

Robust Community Food Systems

Increasing community awareness, access, and participation in the local food system by supporting education, home food production, food donations, and the development of shared infrastructure over time.

View this section of the plan (pdf)

Table-Food Farm Business Viability

Improving the long-term economic viability of local table food farms by strengthening market access, supporting farmer training and collaboration, and advancing shared processing, storage, and distribution infrastructure.

View this section of the plan (pdf)

Or, view the full Fairfield Resilient Action Planning Document (External Link) >

Foodways Projects for 2026 

These surveys will provide us with the means to understand how to prioritize our time, efforts, and funding.



Local Food System Needs Assessment

Farmer and consumer surveys to guide future investments

Link Coming Soon



Plant a Patch Program

The 2026 “Plant a Patch Program” aims to coordinate local food donations to Jefferson County food pantries from home garden support campaigns.

Plant a Patch Coming Soon



2026 Harvest Artwalk

2nd Annual local harvest-focused Art Walk planned for September 2026.

Keep an Eye Out in Sept

Support FRAN

Get Involved!

Contribute to Fairfield's resilience!  Connect with us to get involved or support our efforts.

Get Involved!Support FRAN