SOURCE: https://www.tm.org/en-us/centers/southeast-iowa
ORGANIZATION: TM Southeast Iowa Center
ADDRESS: 1040 North 4th Street, Fairfield, IA 52556
PHONE: (641) 472-1174
HOURS: Monday–Friday 10:00 AM – 4:30 PM, Saturday 10:00 AM – (see center for details)
TYPE: Education and Institutions
REGION: Southeast Iowa

---

SOUTHEAST IOWA MEDITATION CENTER | TRANSCENDENTAL MEDITATION (TM)

Join us for Meditate Southeast Iowa

It's part of our initiative to help more people in Southeast Iowa heal toxic stress, boost resilience, and enjoy inner peace.

WHAT IS THE TM TECHNIQUE?

Evidence-based benefits:

1. Increase Mental Clarity & Creativity
Through improved brain function, you'll gain a broader perspective and enjoy more focus and creativity to make progress towards your goals.

2. Reduce Stress & Anxiety
Find increased resilience to stress and the ability to handle challenging situations calmly. Research has shown the TM technique is also effective for PTSD and ADHD.

3. Get Better Sleep & Health
Enjoy a deep rest that enlivens the body's natural healing response, improving heart health, immunity, sleep quality, and stress-related conditions.

TM COURSE FEE

TM is taught by a non-profit organization committed to making TM's benefits available to as many people as possible. To honor this mission, the TM course fee is income-based and can be paid in installments. In addition, with generous donations, we make scholarships available to first responders, veterans, and those in need of financial assistance.

CERTIFIED TM TEACHERS

The authentic TM technique can only be learned from a certified TM teacher in a course carefully personalized for each individual. All certified TM teachers have successfully completed an intensive in-residence TM Teacher Training Course, and they maintain their certification through ongoing professional courses.

CONTACT THE SOUTHEAST IOWA TM CENTER

Call: (641) 472-1174
Address: 1040 North 4th Street, Fairfield, IA 52556

COMMON QUESTIONS

What is the TM course fee?
As a non-profit organization, we're committed to making the TM technique and its benefits accessible to as many people as possible. To honor this mission, the TM course fee is income-based and can be paid in installments.

Can I learn TM from a book or video?
Individualized instruction by certified TM teachers ensures a personal and intuitive learning experience, allowing students to learn the technique with ease and precision, and to establish a lasting TM practice. There is no other way to learn the authentic TM technique — and there is no evidence that anything else provides the full range of benefits documented in the published research on TM.

What happens during TM?
The TM technique allows your mind to naturally transcend, or easily settle inward, to quieter and quieter levels of thought, until you experience the most silent and peaceful level of your own awareness.

What if I'm not good at controlling my mind?
No problem at all. Unlike other forms of meditation, the TM technique involves no concentration, no control of the mind, no contemplation, no monitoring of thoughts. It is completely effortless.

What if I'm skeptical?
The TM technique's effectiveness is the same whether you believe it will work or are completely skeptical. That's because it automatically and effortlessly allows your active thinking mind to settle down to a state of deep inner calm.

What is the difference between the TM technique and mindfulness?
In mindfulness meditation you monitor your thoughts, feelings, breathing, and bodily sensations, without judging them. This keeps your mind engaged on the active level of thinking, as do many other forms of meditation. What we don't often realize is that, beneath the active surface, the mind already has a deep level of calm, like the settled depth of the ocean beneath the waves. The Transcendental Meditation technique facilitates transcending — effortlessly opening our awareness to this deeper, peaceful level of the mind.

What is the origin of the TM technique?
Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, whose life's work was to revive and demystify the timeless knowledge of meditation, and verify its effectiveness through the lens of modern science, began teaching Transcendental Meditation in the 1950s. After refining and systematizing the teaching of TM, Maharishi began a movement to make the technique available worldwide. He oversaw the training of thousands of teachers and established a non-profit foundation to preserve the authenticity of the TM technique for generations to come.

---

ABOUT TRANSCENDENTAL MEDITATION IN FAIRFIELD, IOWA

Fairfield, Iowa has served as a center for Transcendental Meditation for over 40 years. The TM movement, which began in the United States in 1959, established a significant presence in Fairfield when it acquired the campus of a former college in 1974, which became Maharishi International University. Roughly a fifth to half of Fairfield's residents practice Transcendental Meditation. The TM community has had a profound impact on the town, contributing to entrepreneurship, the arts, education, and civic life.

The Southeast Iowa TM Center at 1040 North 4th Street provides regular instruction in the TM technique to visitors and locals alike, as well as many follow-up programs for the thriving local meditating community.

Maharishi Mahesh Yogi founded the global TM movement and established Maharishi International University (MIU) in Fairfield. MIU has pioneered Consciousness-Based Education, which integrates the TM technique into its curriculum. All students, faculty, and staff practice the Transcendental Meditation program twice a day.

The David Lynch Foundation, with offices in Fairfield, funds implementation of TM for at-risk populations including underserved inner-city students, veterans with PTSD, homeless individuals in reentry programs, and incarcerated juveniles and adults.

The TM program is a non-profit educational organization. Transcendental Meditation® and TM® are protected trademarks licensed by Maharishi Foundation USA.

© 2026 Maharishi Foundation International. All rights reserved.
